

                                                                                                     Page 1 of 2
         Patmos to Convert the Iconic Kansas City Star Building into a State-of-the-Art 100 MW Data Center




  Patmos to Convert the Iconic Kansas City Star Building into a State-of-the-
                          Art 100 MW Data Center
                                                      Business Wire
                                      November 14, 2024 Thursday 3:00 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 742 words
Dateline: KANSAS CITY, Mo.

Body


Patmos is proud to announce the repurposing of the former Kansas City Star printing press as the location for its
new flagship data center. This strategic expansion enhances Patmos' presence to meet the growing demand for
scalable, high-density computing infrastructure, reaffirming its dedication to secure and resilient data solutions.

This      press      release     features   multimedia.                  View        the       full     release        here:
https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20241112498498/en/

The outside of the new Patmos Center (Photo: Business Wire)

Located in the heart of Kansas City, the 400,000 square foot, five-acre campus is being transformed by Patmos into
a hardware agnostic, 100+ megawatt AI innovation facility as part of a billion-dollar retrofit project. Kansas City has
emerged as North America's fastest-growing hub for AI and machine learning workloads due to its central location,
low natural disaster risk, robust fiber optic infrastructure, and affordable green energy. Patmos expects to have the
first 40 MW online and rack-ready in 18 months with the first 5 MW online next month.

Patmos provides a verticalized infrastructure that draws clients of all sizes who seek an edge in an increasingly
competitive AI landscape. With three data centers now completely occupied (Kansas City, Dallas, Phoenix),
Patmos is expanding in its second Kansas City campus to keep up with client demand, and is quickly earning a
reputation as a data center owner / operator able to provide a deeper value than traditional hyperscalers.

By managing each phase of development in-house, Patmos completes bespoke data center builds with reduced
timelines and costs. Targeting densities up to 100 kilowatts per rack or greater, Patmos is also implementing
advanced cooling solutions, such as liquid cooling, rear-door heat exchangers, immersion cooling, and steam
power generation - along with robust power distribution systems to maintain efficiency and reliability at densities
demanded by next-generation hardware. As the former newspaper production facility of the Kansas City Star, the
site of Patmos' next project amplifies the broader national trend of repurposing multi-megawatt industrial buildings
for high-density compute purposes.

"In a world where Big Tech is investing over $20 million per MW to stand up new data centers years down the road,
the infrastructure already in this building allows us to build at a fraction of the cost in a fraction of the time," said Joe
Morgan, CIO of Patmos. "By breathing new life into historic structures, we can create sustainable and innovative AI

                                                                                                    Page 2 of 2
        Patmos to Convert the Iconic Kansas City Star Building into a State-of-the-Art 100 MW Data Center

data centers. Repurposing these buildings not only preserves architectural heritage but also reduces the
environmental impact of new construction. These revitalized spaces can become hubs of technological
advancement, powering the future of AI while honoring the past."

Leaning into Silicon Valley's talent exodus, Patmos aims to bring even more high-paying tech jobs to Kansas City.

"The Star building that is becoming the Patmos Center will be the technological heart of the heartland. Patmos was
born in Kansas City, and we couldn't be more thrilled to establish our new hub, right here in the Silicon Prairie. This
groundbreaking AI colocation facility combines tomorrow's densities with yesterday's cost efficiencies. Patmos has
always promised an unparalleled value to our clients through verticalized infrastructure, free speech policies, and
promotion of technology that serves the human person. In these principles, we stand a fighting chance against an
ever-encroaching technocracy. We are most grateful to our team, our clients, and the building's sellers who have
made this deal possible," said John Johnson, Founder and CEO at Patmos.

About Patmos

Patmos provides cloud, high-density compute, software, and data center solutions free from the threat of Big Tech
censorship . Established as a trusted hosting and professional services provider through its four data centers
(Kansas City (x2), Dallas, Phoenix) and its DevHQ (Denver), Patmos has emerged as a leader in custom high-
density compute solutions. For those seeking a powerful, tailored alternative to the Big Tech monopoly, Patmos
delivers unmatched freedom, security, and reliability. Patmos expects to welcome colocation clients to the new
Patmos Center soon. Interested parties can reach out to Patmos for availability.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20241112498498/en/


CONTACT: Camilla Patterson
(913) 890-8277

camilla.patterson@patmos.tech


http://www.businesswire.com



Graphic


The outside of the new Patmos Center (Photo: Business Wire)


Load-Date: November 14, 2024


  
