

                                                                                                       Page 1 of 2
                       5C Data Centers Announces New Data Center Region in Phoenix, Arizona




   5C Data Centers Announces New Data Center Region in Phoenix, Arizona
                                                           PR Newswire
                                       September 18, 2024 Wednesday 1:35 PM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 687 words
Dateline: PHOENIX, Sept. 18, 2024

Body


PR Newswire5C Data Centers' expansion into Phoenix will prioritize cloud companies and continued climate
commitmentsPHOENIX, Sept. 18, 2024 /PRNewswire/ - 5C Data Centers ("5CDC"), a provider of state-of-the-art
data center services, has announced plans to launch a new region in Phoenix, Arizona. The first facility in the
region, PHX01, is scheduled to go live in 2025.

 Located in one of the fastest growing hyperscale data center regions in North America, and within miles of
downtown Phoenix, the first data center will comprise 140,000 square feet and 20MW of critical IT power capacity.
With 5CDC's experience designing for the latest GPUs and direct-to-chip liquid cooling, PHX01 will be able to
accommodate the most demanding AI and machine learning workloads, supporting power densities of up to 132kW
per cabinet."Expanding our footprint to Phoenix marks a significant milestone for 5C Data Centers as we continue
to support the growing demand for high-performance and sustainable data center solutions," said Steve Perez,
Chief Executive Officer of 5C Data Centers.5CDC continues to prioritize its commitments to climate responsibility in
its expansion to Phoenix. Adiabatic trim cooling and heat-tolerant coolant inlet temperatures will minimize both
water and power usage.Known for its access to renewable energy, availability of talent, and low natural disaster
risk, Phoenix has established itself as a key data center region. By expanding into the region, 5CDC will join the
rapidly growing industrial ecosystem of Greater Phoenix."I am thrilled to welcome this 5C Data Center to my district.
This project will bring economic growth and high-quality job opportunities to the area. We are excited to see this
substantial investment and infrastructure improvements to the neighborhood," said Councilwoman Laura
Pastor."Data center investment is a vital component to meeting the growing advancements of the technology
cluster," said Greater Phoenix Economic Council President & CEO Chris Camacho. "5C Data Centers' work and
commitment to operating with sustainable practices will help Greater Phoenix's high-tech ecosystem continue to
grow."About 5C Data Centers5C Data Centers is an industry-leading data center provider serving hyperscalers,
cloud providers, and enterprise customers. Built on a foundation of exceptional talent and backed by strong
investors, the company specializes in fast deployment of state-of-the-art data centers. With a focus on sustainable
and energy-efficient solutions, 5C Data Centers is committed to innovation and customization, meeting the unique
needs of each client.For more information about 5C Data Centers, please visitwww.5cdatacenters.com.About the
Greater Phoenix Economic CouncilThe Greater Phoenix Economic Council (GPEC), globally recognized as a top
economic development organization (EDO), works to attract and grow quality businesses and advocate for the
competitiveness of Greater Phoenix. A data-driven regional EDO, GPEC works with 22 member communities,
Maricopa and Pinal counties, and more than 220 private investors to accomplish its mission and serve as a
strategic partner to companies across the world as they expand or relocate to Greater Phoenix. Over the past 35

                                                                                                    Page 2 of 2
                    5C Data Centers Announces New Data Center Region in Phoenix, Arizona

years, GPEC has fueled the regional economy by helping over 1,000 companies, creating nearly 190,000 jobs and
$69.4 billion in capital investment. Greater Phoenix is in a relentless pursuit of innovative and entrepreneurial-
focused companies looking to thrive and scale in a vibrant, dynamic region. There is an undeniable spirit about
Greater Phoenix; one rooted in strength, collaboration and resilience. Greater Phoenix is Greater Together. For
more information about GPEC and how we can assist your businesses, visitwww.gpec.org. Press Contacts: 5C
Data Centers, Tanya Naami, Director, Business Operations, Greater Phoenix Economic Council, Logan Newman,
Manager,       Marketing       &     Communications,           View      original     content    to     download
multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/5c-data-centers-announces-new-data-center-region-in-
phoenix-arizona-302252217.htmlSOURCE 5C Data Centers


Load-Date: September 18, 2024


  
