

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 5
   Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee Issues Testimony From National Security Institute Executive Director
                                             Jaffer (Part 2 of 2)




   Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee Issues Testimony From National
           Security Institute Executive Director Jaffer (Part 2 of 2)
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                          October 19, 2024 Saturday 8:22 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 2793 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


The Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific and International Cybersecurity Policy
released the following testimony by Jamil N. Jaffer, founder and executive director of the National Security Institute,
from a Sept. 24, 2024, hearing entitled "Cyberspace Under Threat in the Era of Rising Authoritarianism and Global
Competition":

***

(Continued from Part 1 of 2)

5. Avoid Harmful Overregulation. To ensure that the United States remains a leader in technology innovation, it is
critical that the United States avoid adopting significant new regulatory or administrative policies that would
undermine the ability of the United States to effectively compete on a global scale. Efforts in recent years to amend
longstanding and highly effective antitrust laws that have served our economy well for decades,77 are a key
example of the kind of new policies that would be highly detrimental in the context of the ongoing economic and
national security competition with China. These efforts, which target a handful of technology companies based on
the nature and scale of their business, are largely driven by policy issues unrelated to innovation or competition.78
As such, they would likely undermine the very companies that have the largest potential to benefit the United States
and our allies by posing the biggest threat to the PRC's effort to win the technology competition and sends exactly
the wrong message to new entrants: namely, that if small, innovative businesses thrive and become highly
successful, expanding not through unfair competition, but through market success, the government might seek to
target them for special attention, creating laws to cut them down to size.79 To the extent there are concerns that
market power actually is being used to undermine competition, existing law--and the longstanding consumer
welfare standard that undergirds them--when used appropriately, can effectively address these concerns.80

***

                                                                                                  Page 2 of 5
   Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee Issues Testimony From National Security Institute Executive Director
                                             Jaffer (Part 2 of 2)

77 See, e.g., American Innovation and Choice Online Act, S.2992, 117th Cong. (2021); Open App Markets Act,
S.2710, 117th Cong. (2021).

78 Bill Evanina & Jamil N. Jaffer, Kneecapping U.S. Tech Companies Is a Recipe for Economic Disaster, Barron's
(June 17, 2022), available online at https://www.barrons.com/articles/kneecapping-u-s-tech-firms-is-a-recipe-
foreconomicdisaster-51655480902 ("Conservatives are often worried--sometimes for good reason--that certain
social or mainstream media companies might actively seek to suppress or quiet conservative voices. On the liberal
side, there are a range of legitimate concerns with technology companies, including the displacement of traditional
labor in the new gig economy... Yet rather than tackling these concerns directly by going after the specific behaviors
or actions that trouble ordinary Americans, politicians in Washington have chosen instead to vilify some of our most
successful companies and to go after them economically."); see also David R. Henderson, A Populist Attack On Big
Tech, The Hoover Institution (Mar. 3, 2022), available online at https://www. hoover.org/research/populist-
attackbigtech-0.

79 Klon Kitchen & Jamil Jaffer, The American Innovation & Choice Online Act Is A Mistake, The Kitchen Sync (Jan.
19, 2022), available online at https://www. thekitchensync.tech/p/the-american-innovation-and-choice ("Going after
our technology companies, particularly a targeted shot at certain big ones, sends the wrong message to startups
and investors alike; it tells them that if you are innovative enough to be successful and grow significantly larger, you
may be targeted for different treatment....This undermines not only the companies that are likely to be investing in
R&D over the next decade and generating some of the key innovations that will contribute to our national security, it
also undermines a central proposition that has created a robust tech ecosystem in this country: take risk, innovate,
fail fast and often, and when you succeed, reap the rewards so long as you don't exploit your position to gain unfair
advantage."); Evanina & Jaffer, Kneecapping U.S. Tech Companies, supra n. 78 ("Picking and choosing individual
companies to be treated differently than others under our antitrust laws is inconsistent with the heart of our
economic system, which Seeks to reward innovation and success, not penalize them.").

***

6. Avoid Being Tempted By the European Model. There are those who argue that the U.S. ought enact laws like the
General Data Protection Regulations, the Digital Markets Act, the Digital Services Act, and the AI Act in order to
make sure we are keeping up on the latest in regulatory creep.81 The reality, however, if one looks at the economic
and innovation scoreboard as between the United States and Europe--when looking at GDP growth, the creation of
highly successful, highly innovative businesses, or building private companies whose technology innovations have
a massive benefit for national and economic security--it tilts decisively in favor of the U.S. today, as it has for the
last five decades at least.82 Unlike Europe, which often seeks to drive specific market outcomes, the United States
has generally sought to institute a broadly applicable set of rules designed to ensure that all market participants
compete fairly. Sticking with the traditional American approach is the right way to go.

7. Incentivize AI and Emerging Technology Innovation and Focusing Any Regulation Only on Critical Gaps. The
approach that best protects U.S. national and economic security in AI and emerging technology is one that allows
innovation to flourish, stepping cautiously to address legitimate concerns where regulation is warranted and
appropriate, based on traditional considerations like a demonstrable market failure. Rather than rushing to broad-
based regulation, as the European Parliament has recently, the wiser approach, consistent with the American
approach to innovation, would be to identify potential regulatory need, assesses whether regulation is necessary
and appropriate, and prioritize the voluntary adoption of industry-driven frameworks, before moving to a regulatory
posture, which in turn would build upon the voluntary frameworks.83 While much has been written about the
potential of AI to cause significant harm, the fact is that AI has the potential to have a transformative effect on
human society, raising all boats and allowing a broad range of workers to do mundane tasks more efficiently while
freeing innovators to create even more productive tools and capabilities.84 As such, the best approach on AI may
be the more cautious one: encouraging those closest to the actual creation of the technology to craft potential
frameworks and industry best practices that might guide the trusted, safe, and secure development and
implementation of these technologies.

                                                                                                  Page 3 of 5
   Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee Issues Testimony From National Security Institute Executive Director
                                             Jaffer (Part 2 of 2)

***

80 See Henderson, A Populist Attack on Big Tech, supra n. 78; Evanina & Jaffer, Kneecapping U.S. Tech
Companies, supra n. 78.

81 See, e.g., Cecilia Kang, As Europe Approves New Tech Laws, the U.S. Falls Further Behind, New York Times
(April 22, 2022), available online at https://www. nytimes.com/2022/04/22/technology/tech-regulation-europeus.html

82 See Jan Rybnicek, Innovation in the United States and Europe, in Report on the Digital Economy, Global
Antitrust Institute (2020), available online at https://gaidigitalreport.com/2020/08/25/innovation-in-the-
unitedstatesand-europe/; Michael Ringel et al., The Most Innovative Companies 2020, The Serial Innovation
Imperative, Boston Consulting Group, at 16 (June 2020), available online at https://web-assets.bcg.com/img-
src/BCG-MostInnovative-Companies-2020-Jun-2020-R-4_tcm9-251007.pdf; see also Loren Thompson, Why
Reining In Big Tech Could Be Bad News For U.S. National Security, Forbes (July 7, 2022), available online at
https://www.forbes.com/sites/lorenthompson/2022/07/07/why-breaking-up-big-tech-could-be-bad-news-for-us-
nationalsecurity/?sh=1e40190d32bd; Jaffer, The Role of American Technology Sector, supra n. 75.

83 Cf. Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity, National Institute of Standards & Technology
(Apr. 16, 2018), available online at https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/CSWP/NIST.CSWP.04162018.pdf.

84 Compare Geoffrey Hinton, et al., Statement on AI Risk: AI Experts and Public Figures Express their Concern
About AI Risk, Center for AI Risk (May 30, 2023), available online at https://www.safe.ai/statement-on-airisk#open-
letter ("Mitigating the risk of extinction from AI should be a global priority alongside other societalscale risks such as
pandemics and nuclear war.") with Michael Chui, et al., Generative AI is Here: How Tools Like ChatGPT Could
Change        Your      Business,       McKinsey     &     Co.     (Dec.      20,    2022),     available     online    at
https://www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/quantumblack/our-insights/generative-ai-is-here-how-tools-like-
chatgptcouldchange-your-business; Danny Hajek, et al., What Is AI and How Will It Change Our Lives?, NPR (May
25, 2023), available online at https://www.npr.org/2023/05/25/1177700852/ai- future-dangers-benefits.

***

8. Stop Investing in Our Adversaries. In 2022, the total U.S. foreign direct investment in China was $126.1 billion,
an increase of more than $10 billion from the prior year.85

American companies have made major investments in leading-edge Chinese companies, including in the artificial
intelligence arena, and by one metric, U.S. investors "accounted for nearly a fifth of investment deals in Chinese
AI/ML companies from 2015 to 2021."86

We must take sustainable action to limit on outbound investment from the U.S. in critical industries like high
performance computing, semiconductors, critical minerals, cloud computing, artificial intelligence, and quantum
computing, to name just a few.

9. Growing a STEM-Capable Workforce By Investing Here and Fixing Our Broken Immigration System. The U.S.
must take action to grow our STEM workforce, including continuing appropriate funding the workforce-related
programs authorized in the CHIPS and Science Act and directing new and existing resources to the states in form
of block grants to be used through public schools, public charter schools, and private institutions.87 We must also
incentivize those who come from abroad to study here to stay here, develop their new technology, and build
businesses in the United States, rather than forcing them to back home. One of the nation's most enduring
achievements is our "ability to attract and retain some of the world's best STEM talent...[that can] drive research
and development efforts," yet our current immigration system makes little sense, because it allows a wide range of
undergraduate and graduate students to benefit from our world-class higher education system, but then--with
exception of the small number that are able to obtain H-1B visas or otherwise stay in the United States--requires
them to return home to build businesses abroad.88 This poorly thought-out policy actually forces American
companies to hire high-skilled workers abroad and deprives our own economy of the benefits of their employment

                                                                                                  Page 4 of 5
   Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee Issues Testimony From National Security Institute Executive Director
                                             Jaffer (Part 2 of 2)

here, including the tax revenues and spending of these highskilled, high-wage workers who could easily be vetted
to address any potential IP theft and foreign intelligence concerns.89

***

85 See Bureau of Economic Analysis, Direct Investment by Country and Industry, 2022, U.S. Dept. of Commerce
(July 20, 2023), available online at https://www. bea.gov/sites/default/files/2023-07/dici0723.pdf.

86 See Emily S. Weinstein & Ngor Luong, U.S. Outbound Investment into Chinese AI Companies, Georgetown
University Center for Security & Emerging Technology (Feb. 2023), at 11-13, available online at
https://cset.georgetown.edu/wp-content/uploads/CSET-U.S.-Outbound-Investment-into-Chinese-AICompanies.pdf
see also Alexandra Alper, U.S. Investors Have Plowed Billions into China's AI sector, Report Shows, Reuters (Feb.
1, 2023), available online at https://www.reuters.com/ technology/us-investors-have-plowedbillionsinto-chinas-ai-
sector-report-shows-2023-02-01/.

87 See McKinsey & Co., The CHIPS and Science Act: Here's What's in It (Oct. 4, 2022), available online at
https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/public-sector/        our-insights/the-chips-and-science-act-heres-whats-in-it;
cf.National Science Teachers Association, FACT SHEET: Title IV, Part A of ESSA: Student Support and Academic
Enrichment           Grants      and         Science/STEM        Education,        available       online       at
https://static.nsta.org/pdfs/ESSATitleIVScienceSTEMFactSheet.pdf (describing the $1.65 billion Student Support
and Academic Enrichment block grant program under The Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA) enacted in 2014,
which consolidated the Math and Science Partnership Grants, which is described as "the largest single program at
the Department of Education devoted exclusively to science/STEM-related classroom purposes," having "received
$152.7M in FY2016 before it was eliminated").

***

10. Set a Clear, Declaratory Cyber Deterrence Policy and Where Needed Take Action to Deter Future Attacks. If we
are to take seriously the threat posed by China and other nations that are actively targeting our critical
infrastructure, we cannot simply remain on the defensive; rather, we must implement effective deterrence in the
cyber domain. We can do so being clear about what kind of activity we can tolerate and what kind of activity would
cross a line; we must talk about our offensive capabilities in the cyber domain to demonstrate one way we might
effectuate that deterrence; and, having established a clear line, we must be willing to enforce it and impose
significant consequences on bad actors and we must do so in a way that is open and transparent so we are able to
deter both the current and future actors.90 While there are those that argue such a policy is too provocative or more
likely to get us into a conflict, the reality is that we are already in state of sustained low-level combat in the cyber
domain, and that it has gotten worse in recent years not better.91 The fact of the matter is that when our
adversaries don't know how we might react--or worse, based on prior practices assume that we won't react all--they
are more likely to push the envelope and test our boundaries.92

VII. Conclusion

For over a decade now, Congress and the Executive Branch have been talking the very real threats that globally
repressive nations like China, Russia, Iran, and North Korea pose to the United States, particularly in the cyber
domain and with respect to emerging technologies. And while we have taken significant action to address some of
these threats, the reality is that we are far from where we need to be if we are going to successfully limit the threat
these nations pose. It is critical that the United States take swift action, alongside our allies, to limit the threats we
face in the cyber domain and to limit our exposure to the threats that are apparent in the emerging technology
domain as well while continuing to lead on innovation. To do any less would be significant mistake.

***

88 See William Alan Reinsch & Thibault Denamiel, Immigration Policy's Role in Bolstering the U.S. Technology
Edge,  Center     for  Strategic  &    International Studs.   (Feb.    6,    2023),    available  online  at

                                                                                                  Page 5 of 5
   Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee Issues Testimony From National Security Institute Executive Director
                                             Jaffer (Part 2 of 2)

https://www.csis.org/analysis/immigration-policys-role-bolstering-us-technology-edge; see also Gina M. Raimondo,
Remarks by U.S. Sec'y of Com. Gina Raimondo on the U.S. Competitiveness and the China Challenge, U.S.
Department         of        Commerce          (Nov.         20,        2022),      available        online       at
https://www.commerce.gov/news/speeches/2022/11/remarks-us-secretary-commerce-gina-raimondo-
uscompetitivenessand-china; see also Eric Schmidt, To Compete With China on Tech, America Needs to Fix Its
Immigration System, Foreign Affairs (May 16, 2023), available online at https://www.foreignaffairs.com/unitedstates/
eric-schmidt-compete-china-tech-america-needs-fix-its-immigration-system.

89 See Paayal Zaveri, America's Immigration System is a Nightmare & it's Forcing Tech Companies to Move Jobs
Outside     of   the     Country,    Business     Insider    (Mar.    14,     2023),    available   online   at
https://www.businessinsider.com/ustechfirms-offshoring-immigration-labor-shortage-issues-remote-work-2023-3.

90 See Jamil N. Jaffer, Statement for the Record, Safeguarding the Federal Software Supply Chain, Subcommittee
on Cybersecurity, Information Technology, and Government Innovation, Committee on Oversight and Accountability
(Nov. 29, 2023), available online at https://oversight.house.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/Written-
StatementJaffer.pdf.

91 Id.

92 Id.

***

Original     text       here:       https://www.foreign.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/027dd814-b0a8-15b2-2e1f-
ec779d72bb40/092424_Jaffer_Testimony.pdf

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8884424 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: October 19, 2024


  
