

                                                                                                 Page 1 of 3
  Oracle Helps Financial Institutions Manage Balance Sheet Risk and Fuel Growth in New Treasury and Finance
                                                   Solutions




    Oracle Helps Financial Institutions Manage Balance Sheet Risk and Fuel
                Growth in New Treasury and Finance Solutions
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                         October 9, 2024 Wednesday 9:17 PM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 1015 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: REDWOOD SHORES, California

Body


Oracle, a developer of hardware and software products, issued the following news release on Oct. 8, 2024:

***

Solutions enable banks with deep insights and complex reporting on profitability, interest rate risk, and balance
sheet trends

***

Helping financial institutions boost profitability, grow revenue, and manage balance sheet risk, Oracle today
announced Oracle Financial Services Profitability and Balance Sheet Management Cloud Services. With Asset
Liability Management, Cash Flow Engine, Funds Transfer Pricing, and Profitability Management applications, the
new suite of SaaS solutions provides banks deep insights into profitability, interest margins, interest rate risk, and
balance sheet trends to make critical business decisions faster, while meeting complex risk management reporting
requirements. The services are now available globally.

"Oracle has set the standard in the financial services industry for running integrated analytical applications across
finance, risk, treasury, financial planning and analysis, and compliance," said Sonny Singh, executive vice president
and general manager, Oracle Financial Services. "With these cloud-native services for profitability and balance
sheet management, we are empowering financial institutions to optimize operations, and drive more sustainable
growth by using advanced analytics and integrated AI to gain critical insights, such as drain on profitability, or a risk-
adjusted view of performance to immediately adjust to market realities."

The suite of solutions provides a framework for multi-dimensional profitability and balance sheet management by
helping financial institutions better understand profitability across business dimensions, use flexible forecast
assumptions to accurately model Net Interest Income (NII), and address risk management requirements. The

                                                                                                 Page 2 of 3
  Oracle Helps Financial Institutions Manage Balance Sheet Risk and Fuel Growth in New Treasury and Finance
                                                   Solutions

applications leverage the integration of Generative AI and Natural Language Generation (NLG) to enhance data
interpretation by automatically generating detailed insights.

Built on the high performance, security, and scalability of Oracle Cloud Infrastructure, the services use Oracle
Autonomous Database, Oracle Analytics, and a domain-driven microservices architecture. With quarterly updates,
banks can eliminate the need for costly upgrades while benefiting from continuous innovation that helps improve
total-cost-of-ownership.

Oracle Profitability and Balance Sheet Management Cloud Services include:

* Profitability management: provides a highly scalable allocation engine that allows users to construct detailed P&L
analysis using pre-packaged reports and data visualizations to model profitability across multiple dimensions,
including product, customer, account, channel, business unit, geography, relationship manager, and line of
business. With the solution, organizations can answer questions such as, "Which customers are the most
profitable?" or "What products or services should we invest in or divest?"

* Funds transfer pricing: determines the spread earned on assets and liabilities, and allows for more accurate
profitability assessment and effective interest rate risk management.

* Asset liability management: delivers accurate valuations, views of earnings stability, and balance sheet risk
sensitivity through advanced analytics and scenario-based what-if analysis.

* Cash flow engine: measures and models cash inflows and outflows for financial instruments, and provides
detailed insights into liquidity and cash management.

"Financial institutions are under constant pressure to improve efficiency and reduce costs, and Oracle's new cloud
services directly address the challenges around automating complex tasks, reporting, and developing analytics and
visualization," said Sid Dash, chief researcher, Chartis. "Moreover, the ability to analyze profitability and balance
sheet risk in real-time, with the granularity that Oracle offers, will be crucial for institutions to thrive."

These services are part of the Oracle Financial Services Suite of componentized and composable cloud
applications. Built on a platform and AI-first microservices architecture, these services help banks modernize their
business capabilities faster and with less risk. The services can run standalone or work together and coexist with
existing applications to provide faster provisioning and availability. They also feature automated patching and
shorten disaster recovery switchover times that can help lower IT costs and reduce management burdens. For
more information about Oracle Financial Service Profitability and Balance Sheet Management cloud services visit:
https://www.oracle.com/financial-services/banking/profitability-balance-sheet-management/

***

About Oracle

Oracle offers integrated suites of applications plus secure, autonomous infrastructure in the Oracle Cloud. For more
information about Oracle (NYSE: ORCL), please visit us at www.oracle.com.

***

About Oracle Financial Services

Oracle Financial Services provides solutions for retail banking, corporate banking, payments, asset management,
life insurance, annuities, and healthcare payers. With our comprehensive set of integrated digital and data
platforms, banks and insurers are empowered to deliver next-generation financial services. We enable customer-
centric transformation, support collaborative innovation, and drive efficiency. Our data and analytical platforms help
financial institutions drive customer insight, integrate risk and finance, fight financial crime, and comply with
regulations. To learn more, visit our website at https://wwww.oracle.com/financial-services/

                                                                                                 Page 3 of 3
  Oracle Helps Financial Institutions Manage Balance Sheet Risk and Fuel Growth in New Treasury and Finance
                                                   Solutions

***

Trademarks

Oracle, Java, MySQL and NetSuite are registered trademarks of Oracle Corporation. NetSuite was the first cloud
company--ushering in the new era of cloud computing.

***

Original text here: https://www.oracle.com/news/announcement/oracle-helps-financial-institutions-manage-balance-
sheet-risk-and-fuel-growth-in-new-treasury-and-finance-solutions-2024-10-08/

[Category: BizComputer Technology]

Contact: Judi Palmer, judi.palmer@oracle.com

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8866487 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: October 9, 2024


  
