

                                                                                                        Page 1 of 2
                          Intermap Announces Dates for Q3 2024 Financial Results and Webinar




     Intermap Announces Dates for Q3 2024 Financial Results and Webinar
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                             November 8, 2024 Friday 9:57 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: CONFERENCE CALLS/ WEBCASTS
Length: 829 words

Body


DENVER, Nov. 08, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Intermap Technologies (TSX: IMP; OTCQB: ITMSF)
(“Intermap” or the “Company”), a global leader in 3D geospatial products and intelligence solutions, today
announced that it plans to release is third quarter 2024 financial results after market close on Thursday, November
14, 2024.

Intermap’s CEO Patrick A. Blott, CFO Jennifer Bakken and COO Jack Schneider will host a live webinar on
Thursday, November 14, 2024, at 4:30 pm ET / 2:30 pm MT to review the results, provide Company updates and
answer investor questions following the presentation.

Intermap invites shareholders, analysts, investors, media representatives, and other stakeholders to attend the
earnings webinar to discuss Q3 2024 results.

Webinar Details
                        DATE:                                     Thursday, November 14, 2024
        TIME:           4:30 pm ET / 2:30 pm MT
        WEBINAR:        Register


A recording of the webinar and supporting materials will be made available in the investor’s section of the
company’s website at https://www.intermap.com/investors

Intermap Reader AdvisoryCertain information provided in this news release, including reference to revenue growth,
constitutes forward-looking statements. The words "anticipate", "expect", "project", "estimate", "forecast", “will be”,
“will consider”, “intends” and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Although
Intermap believes that these statements are based on information and assumptions which are current, reasonable

                                                                                                       Page 2 of 2
                      Intermap Announces Dates for Q3 2024 Financial Results and Webinar

and complete, these statements are necessarily subject to a variety of known and unknown risks and uncertainties.
Intermap’s forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties pertaining to, among other things, cash
available to fund operations, availability of capital, revenue fluctuations, nature of government contracts, economic
conditions, loss of key customers, retention and availability of executive talent, competing technologies, common
share price volatility, loss of proprietary information, software functionality, internet and system infrastructure
functionality, information technology security, breakdown of strategic alliances, and international and political
considerations, as well as those risks and uncertainties discussed Intermap’s Annual Information Form and other
securities filings. While the Company makes these forward-looking statements in good faith, should one or more of
these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary
significantly from those expected. Accordingly, no assurances can be given that any of the events anticipated by the
forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what benefits that the Company will
derive therefrom. All subsequent forward-looking statements, whether written or oral, attributable to Intermap or
persons acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. The forward-
looking statements contained in this news release are made as at the date of this news release and the Company
does not undertake any obligation to update publicly or to revise any of the forward-looking statements made
herein, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by applicable
securities law.

About Intermap TechnologiesFounded in 1997 and headquartered in Denver, Colorado, Intermap (TSX: IMP;
OTCQB: ITMSF) is a global leader in geospatial intelligence solutions, focusing on the creation and analysis of 3D
terrain data to produce high-resolution thematic models. Through scientific analysis of geospatial information and
patented sensors and processing technology, the Company provisions diverse, complementary, multi-source
datasets to enable customers to seamlessly integrate geospatial intelligence into their workflows. Intermap’s 3D
elevation data and software analytic capabilities enable global geospatial analysis through artificial intelligence
and machine learning, providing customers with critical information to understand their terrain environment. By
leveraging its proprietary archive of the world’s largest collection of multi-sensor global elevation data, the
Company’s collection and processing capabilities provide multi-source 3D datasets and analytics at mission speed,
enabling governments and companies to build and integrate geospatial foundation data with actionable insights.
Applications for Intermap’s products and solutions include defense, aviation and UAV flight planning, flood and
wildfire insurance, disaster mitigation, base mapping, environmental and renewable energy planning,
telecommunications, engineering, critical infrastructure monitoring, hydrology, land management, oil and gas and
transportation.

For more information, please visit www.intermap.com or contact:Jennifer BakkenExecutive Vice President and
CFOCFO@intermap.com +1 (303) 708-0955

Sean Peasgood Investor Relations Sean@SophicCapital.com +1 (647) 260-9266


Load-Date: November 8, 2024


  
