

                                                                                                       Page 1 of 2
                                    Fortune Announces the 2024 Change the World List




                     Fortune Announces the 2024 Change the World List
                                                           PR Newswire
                                      September 25, 2024 Wednesday 12:01 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 657 words
Dateline: NEW YORK, Sept. 25, 2024

Body


PR NewswireThree stellar space leaders—GHGSat, Rocket Lab and SpaceX—share the top spot, tackling
climate change and the digital divideFortune's 10th annual list highlights 50+ companies that do well by
doing good including Honeywell, Walmart, Levi Strauss and moreGlobal leaders include Grab from
Singapore and Alibaba from China, along with Philips, Puma from EuropeNEW YORK, Sept. 25, 2024
/PRNewswire/ -- Fortune's 10th annual Change the World list is led by a group of space pioneers pushing the
boundaries of innovation. They includeSpaceX, operator of the Starlink satellite internet service;

GHGSat, the leading space-based greenhouse gas emissions monitor; andRocket Lab, the creator of a
revolutionary reusable orbital-class small rocket. Fortune's 2024 list showcases 52 companies globally that have
created significant social or environmental impact through their profit-driven strategies and operations, spanning a
range of industries including technology, space, e-commerce, and health care. This year's list includes 30 from
North America, 12 from Europe, 8 from Asia and Australia, one from Africa, and one from South America. Fortune
Executive Features Editor Matt Heimer said, "This year's edition, our 10th, showcases 52 businesses that continue
the Change the World list's legacy of combining public-spiritedness with the profit motive. These companies let their
actions speak for themselves—harnessing the creative impulses of capitalism to address social problems and
generating revenue while doing so."Alongside space innovation, the Fortune Change the World list highlights
technology companies that showcase AI's potential for positive impact and that are dedicated to using technology
for the greater good. Companies showcasing innovative approaches includeEllo(No. 5), which deploys AI to
address childhood literacy gaps with personalized reading tutorials;Alibaba Group(No. 8), which detects pancreatic
cancer lesions with advanced technology;Samsara(No. 23), which uses AI to detect and automatically notify drivers
of unsafe driving behaviors; andKayrros(No. 30), which maps wildfire patterns for improved fire prevention and
disaster management.Meanwhile,Levi Strauss(no. 13) is recognized for its efforts to increase voter turnout and
encourage employees in retail to exercise their right to vote.The top 10 on theFortune 2024 Change the World
Listare:GHGSat, Rocket Lab, SpaceX; (Canada, U.S., U.S.)Grab (Singapore)Viettel Group (Vietnam)Maven Clinic
(U.S.)Ello (U.S.)Globant (Argentina)Cognizant and Cisco (U.S.)Alibaba Group (China)Commercial International
Bank (Egypt)Honeywell (U.S.)The Change the World list was selected and sequenced by the editors of Fortune
based on the magazine's own reporting and analysis. The final list was selected from a field of 250
nominees.Fortune CEO Anastasia Nyrkovskaya added, "The Change the World List spotlights companies that are
shaping our future, whether in the near term or 100 years from now. And it recognizes leaders who are driving true
innovation and addressing social issues – and making money while doing it."View the complete 2024 Fortune
Change the World listhereand the methodologyhere.About Fortune:Fortune is a global multi-platform media

                                                                                                   Page 2 of 2
                               Fortune Announces the 2024 Change the World List

company built on a legacy of trusted, award-winning reporting and information for those who want to make business
better. Its iconic rankings includeFortune 500,Fortune Global 500,Most Powerful Women, andWorld's Most Admired
Companies. Fortune builds world-class communities by convening industry thought leaders for exclusive summits
and conferences, including theFortune Global Forum,Brainstorm Tech,FortuneMost Powerful Women. For more
information, visitfortune.com.Media Contacts:Chelsea Hudson
Fortune
Patrick Reilly
Fortune
 View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/fortune-announces-the-
2024-change-the-world-list-302257623.htmlSOURCE Fortune Media (USA) Corporation


Load-Date: September 25, 2024


  
