

                                                                               Page 1 of 2
     COP29: NOAA DELEGATION TO FOCUS ON HELPING U.S. , WORLD NATIONS FIND SOLUTIONS TO
                                      CLIMATE CRISIS




        COP29: NOAA DELEGATION TO FOCUS ON HELPING U.S., WORLD
                NATIONS FIND SOLUTIONS TO CLIMATE CRISIS
                                                       US Fed News
                                            November 8, 2024 Friday 6:49 PM EST



Copyright 2024 HT Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved




Length: 460 words

Body


WASHINGTON, Nov. 8 -- The U.S. Department of Commerce's National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration
issued the following press release:

As leaders, scientists and decision-makers from across the globe gather early next week to address the escalating
impacts of climate change, NOAA experts and leaders will be on the ground working to help advance the world's
ability to be resilient and better adapt to climate change and offer science-based solutions.

The 29th Conference of the Partiesoffsite link to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change,
commonly referred to as COP29, takes place from November 11-22 in Baku, Azerbaijan.

This year's COP comes in the wake of yet another record-breaking year for high global temperatures and extreme
weather events, including an active Atlantic hurricane season.

"The urgency of addressing the impacts of climate change has never been clearer," said Rick Spinrad, Ph.D.,
NOAA administrator and under secretary of commerce for oceans and atmosphere. "Together with the global
community, we are committed to advancing science and partnerships that drive climate solutions, safeguarding our
communities and fostering a sustainable future for all."

Climate and weather disasters continue to intensify

As of November 1, 2024, there have been 24 confirmed weather/climate disaster events in the U.S. with losses
exceeding $1 billion or more. The NOAA delegation at the Climate Summit underscores its mission to address
these challenges head-on by providing science-based strategies and collaborating with the international community
to work toward the same goals.

What's on the negotiating table at COP29

NOAA's participation in summit negotiations this year will center on key areas, including:

                                                                              Page 2 of 2
    COP29: NOAA DELEGATION TO FOCUS ON HELPING U.S. , WORLD NATIONS FIND SOLUTIONS TO
                                     CLIMATE CRISIS

* Supporting ocean and coastal resilience;

* Strengthening climate prediction and early warning systems;

* Advancing community adaptation initiatives; and

* Promoting ocean-based climate solutions, which could benefit from potential applications of artificial intelligence.

NOAA scientists will also share insights from their latest research on the impacts of extreme weather, sea-level rise
and the ecosystem shifts that are being driven by climate change and ocean warming.

As the global community works to thrive in the face of climate change, NOAA science and experts remain on the
front lines of the climate crisis, developing innovative solutions that protect lives, livelihoods and ecosystems in an
increasingly warming world.

MORE: For the latest COP29 events schedule, archived video and more, visit noaa.gov/cop29, @noaaclimate and
@noaa on X, and our social media hashtag, #NOAAatCOP29. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at contentservices@htdigital.in


Load-Date: November 12, 2024


  
