

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 2
  Blackbaud's bbcon 2024 Brings Thousands of Social Impact Professionals Together for Innovation, Inspiration,
                                        Learning and Celebration




  Blackbaud's bbcon 2024 Brings Thousands of Social Impact Professionals
        Together for Innovation, Inspiration, Learning and Celebration
                                                           PR Newswire
                                          September 27, 2024 Friday 1:17 PM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 1339 words
Dateline: CHARLESTON, S.C., Sept. 27, 2024

Body


PR NewswireFrom exciting product announcements to moving mainstage messages and insightful breakout
sessions, attendees are energized and equipped with knowledge to take back to their teamsCHARLESTON, S.C.,
Sept. 27, 2024 /PRNewswire/ -- Blackbaud (NASDAQ: BLKB), the leading provider of software for powering social
impact, gathered thousands of social impact professionals this week in person and virtually for bbcon 2024, its
annual technology conference that took place in Seattle, Washington."As we conclude another bbcon, we're
reflecting on the meaningful impact that our customers have around the world," said Catherine LaCour, chief
marketing officer, Blackbaud. "There is no other community like the one that convened here this week. We're in awe
of the transformation our customers are driving in the world, using technology to power their missions. It's our honor
to be a partner and to provide our insights and resources to help them achieve even more."In the opening keynote,
Blackbaudannounced a wide range of innovationshaping the future of social impact technology,including a host of
AI-powered solutions, enhanced functionality of its core fundraising product, integrated payments experiences to
help organizations raise and save more, greater connection between financial workflows, and more flexibility to help
customers extend their Blackbaud software.The conference also provided insights and inspiration to enable those
at the forefront of world-changing organizations to return to their teams energized and equipped to fuel impact.

Emmy award-winning actress and nonprofit founder Sheryl Lee Ralph gave a powerful keynote to attendees on the
importance of staying true to oneself and connecting deeply with purpose. Dr. Alex George, author, podcast host
and government mental health ambassador in the U.K., spoke about the importance of mental fitness to be your
best self and do your best work.With more than 150 breakout sessions, attendees learned proven tactics, best
practices and helpful strategies for fundraising, financial management, grantmaking, corporate impact, higher
education advancement, K-12 education management and more. Attendees also connected directly with each other
to network, brainstorm and provide advice and support through Braindate, a web-based platform that helps
participants connect on site and form valuable connections based on topics important to them.Attendee Amy
Barker, a database administrator at nonprofit Pine Street Inn, shared, "The face-to-face conversations at bbcon are
so valuable and helpful––from connecting with Blackbaud staff and product developers to discuss our
organization's needs, to getting to connect with other users who I may never otherwise get a chance to meet. It's all
about making connections, sharing ideas and getting inspiration!"As this year's give back opportunity for attendees,
the American Red Cross provided hands-only CPR training, teaching hundreds of people on how to deliver
lifesaving care. In support of this important work, Blackbaud made a donation to the American Red Cross to further

                                                                                                  Page 2 of 2
  Blackbaud's bbcon 2024 Brings Thousands of Social Impact Professionals Together for Innovation, Inspiration,
                                        Learning and Celebration

enable their disaster preparedness and response efforts.Celebrating AchievementsFrom customers to partners
to new startups fueling innovation in the space, Blackbaud celebrated the achievements of its community
throughout the event.Blackbaud Impact Awards WinnersThrough theBlackbaud Impact Awards,the company
honored six customers achieving incredible results with Blackbaud software. Award winners were announced on
the mainstage and recognized by Blackbaud CEO Mike Gianoni and Blackbaud Chief Customer Officer Todd Lant.
The 2024 Blackbaud Impact Awards Winners included Adventist Health, Turtle Creek Association, Jackson,
Combat Stress, University of Manitoba, and Katie M. Lewis from the Burger King Foundation. Learn more about
each of these organizations and their achievementshere.Social Good Startup Showcase WinnersOnce again,
Blackbaud introduced bbcon attendees to tech startups from theBlackbaud Social Good Startup Program.Founders
in this year's cohort pitched their solutions to Blackbaud leaders and customers sharing how their technology can
solve unique challenges for the social impact industry. This year's pitch competition judges' choice winners
wereChariotandOpenGrants. The attendees' choice winner wasChat2Impact. Learn more about these startups and
the others in this year's programhere(January cohort) andhere(July cohort). To apply for a future cohort, learn
morehere.Blackbaud Partner Network AwardsAt its on-site Partner Summit, Blackbaud recognized technology
and services firms bringing more flexibility to customers by extending the ways they can leverage Blackbaud
solutions.      The       2024      Blackbaud        Partner     Network      Awards       winners     includedRed
Arc,Almabase,SimpliPhi,FundMiner,BrightVine           Solutions,Capital     Business       Solutions,Double     the
Donation,PairSoft,andZobrio. Learn more about these partners and their awardshere.Next year's bbcon will be held
in Philadelphia, Oct. 6-8, 2025. In the meantime, for more details on Blackbaud's product roadmap, register to
attend the upcomingBlackbaud Product Update Briefings, happening Nov. 12-14, 2024.About
BlackbaudBlackbaud (NASDAQ: BLKB) is the leading software provider exclusively dedicated to powering social
impact. Serving the nonprofit and education sectors, companies committed to social responsibility and individual
change makers, Blackbaud's essential software is built to accelerate impact in fundraising, nonprofit financial
management, digital giving, grantmaking, corporate social responsibility and education management. With millions
of users and over $100 billion raised, granted or managed through Blackbaud platforms every year, Blackbaud's
solutions are unleashing the potential of the people and organizations who change the world. Blackbaud has been
named to Newsweek's list of America's Most Responsible Companies, Quartz's list of Best Companies for Remote
Workers, and Forbes' list of America's Best Employers. A remote-first company, Blackbaud has operations in the
United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom, supporting users in 100+ countries. Learn
more atwww.blackbaud.comor follow us onX/Twitter,LinkedIn,InstagramandFacebook.Media InquiriesForward-
looking StatementsExcept for historical information, all of the statements, expectations, and assumptions
contained in this news release are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties,
including statements regarding expected benefits of products and product features. Although Blackbaud attempts to
be accurate in making these forward-looking statements, it is possible that future circumstances might differ from
the assumptions on which such statements are based. In addition, other important factors that could cause results
to differ materially include the following: general economic risks; uncertainty regarding increased business and
renewals from existing customers; continued success in sales growth; management of integration of acquired
companies and other risks associated with acquisitions; risks associated with successful implementation of multiple
integrated software products; the ability to attract and retain key personnel; risks associated with management of
growth; lengthy sales and implementation cycles, particularly in larger organization; technological changes that
make our products and services less competitive; and the other risk factors set forth from time to time in the SEC
filings for Blackbaud, copies of which are available free of charge at the SEC's website atwww.sec.govor upon
request from Blackbaud's investor relations department. All Blackbaud product names appearing herein are
trademarks or registered trademarks of Blackbaud, Inc.                     View original content to download
multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/blackbauds-bbcon-2024-brings-thousands-of-social-impact-
professionals-together-for-innovation-inspiration-learning-and-celebration-302261316.htmlSOURCE Blackbaud


Load-Date: September 27, 2024


  
