

                                                                                  Page 1 of 3
               XI CALLS ON ANHUI TO WRITE ITS OWN CHAPTER OF CHINESE MODERNIZATION




          XI CALLS ON ANHUI TO WRITE ITS OWN CHAPTER OF CHINESE
                              MODERNIZATION
                                                 States News Service
                                               October 20, 2024 Sunday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 2043 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: BEIJING, China

Body


The following information was released by the State Council of the People's Republic of China:

On a recent inspection tour in east China's Anhui Province, Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of
China (CPC) Central Committee, Chinese president, and chairman of the Central Military Commission, emphasized
the need for the province to further implement the guiding principles of the 20th CPC National Congress and the
third plenary session of the 20th CPC Central Committee. He also stressed that the province should
comprehensively implement the new development philosophy. He urged Anhui to leverage multiple national
development strategies in its continued drive to establish itself as an important hub of sci-tech innovation, a center
for emerging industries, a new frontier for reform and opening up, and a comprehensive green transformation zone
for economic and social development. Xi called on Anhui to make further achievements in deepening its integration
into the new pattern of development, promoting high-quality development, and building a beautiful Anhui in all
respects, so as to write an Anhui chapter of Chinese modernization.

From Oct. 17 to 18, accompanied by Liang Yanshun, secretary of the CPC Anhui Provincial Committee, and Anhui
Governor Wang Qingxian, Xi conducted fact-finding missions in the cities of Anqing and Hefei, where he visited a
number of sites, including a historical and cultural block and a sci-tech park.

On the afternoon of Oct. 17, Xi first arrived in Tongcheng City, Anqing. The city's Liuchi Alley, so called because
Zhang Ying, a senior Qing Dynasty official, and his neighbor, the Wu family, both moved back their walls by a meter
to resolve their disputes over property boundaries, stands as a model of harmonious and courteous neighbor
relations in China. In the alley, Xi learned about the history of the site and its inheritance, viewed artifacts from the
"Tongcheng School," and learned about local efforts to carry on fine traditional Chinese culture and promote cultural
and ethical development. He emphasized the need to strengthen the protection of historical and cultural heritage,
adhere to the principle of creative transformation and innovative development, as well as work collaboratively to
advance socialist culture, promote revolutionary traditions, and inherit fine traditional Chinese culture, laying a solid
cultural foundation for social governance.

As local residents and tourists gathered, Xi engaged warmly with them, stressing the need to resolve disputes
between members of the public through mediation. He noted that Liuchi Alley exemplifies the ancestral wisdom of

                                                                                Page 2 of 3
             XI CALLS ON ANHUI TO WRITE ITS OWN CHAPTER OF CHINESE MODERNIZATION

dispute resolution and should serve as an educational site for carrying forward traditional Chinese culture, and full
play should be given to China's traditional virtue of courtesy and modesty, so as to create a harmonious social
environment where people can live and work in peace and happiness.

Later, Xi visited Hefei Binhu Science City, where he viewed major technological innovations in the province and was
briefed about what has been done there to innovate systems and mechanisms for scientific and technological
development and application of scientific and technological advances, and engaged in discussions with researchers
and corporate executives. Xi took a close look at high-tech products in the fields of intelligent connected vehicles,
new-generation information technology, new energy, artificial intelligence, and health and life science. He stopped
in front of each product, carefully observing them and expressing appreciation from time to time. He said science
and technology should spearhead the advancement of Chinese modernization, and sci-tech innovation is an
essential path to Chinese modernization. High-tech is not something that can be begged for or borrowed, Xi said,
calling for accelerated efforts to achieve greater self-reliance and strength in science and technology. Noting that
scientists and researchers are the backbone of advancing Chinese modernization, Xi called on them to seize every
opportunity in life, unleash their innovative potential, contribute their wisdom and talent to building the country's
strength in science and technology and score remarkable achievements.

On the morning of Oct. 18, Xi listened to work reports from the CPC Anhui Provincial Committee and the provincial
government. He commended what the province has achieved in various areas of its work and put forward clear
requirements for the work in the future.

Xi emphasized the need to accelerate technological innovation and industrial transformation and upgrading. He
called for efforts to build national laboratories and a comprehensive national science center in Hefei with high
standards, to effectively leverage high-level scientific and technological innovation platforms. He required greater
efforts in innovations regarding key generic technologies, cutting-edge frontier technologies, modern engineering
technologies, and disruptive technologies. He also emphasized the importance of expanding international sci-tech
exchanges and cooperation, and continuously boosting original innovation capabilities. Xi urged Anhui to establish
supportive systems and mechanisms for innovation in all fields, promote the integrated reform of systems involving
the development of education, science, technology, and talent in a coordinated manner, optimize financial policies
and mechanisms that support sci-tech innovation, and promote the deep integration of the innovation chain,
industrial chain, capital chain, and talent chain. He called for efforts to safeguard the foundation of the real
economy, accelerate the transformation and upgrading of traditional industries, strengthen and expand strategic
emerging industries, plan ahead and nurture future industries, develop new quality productive forces according to
local conditions, and build advanced manufacturing clusters with international competitiveness. He called for
coordinated efforts to promote carbon reduction, pollution control, afforestation, and economic growth,
systematically advance ecological conservation and restoration, and ecological environmental governance, and
improve capabilities for disaster prevention, reduction, and relief.

Xi stressed the importance of advancing extended reform and high-level opening up. He called for bold steps to
pursue innovative and differentiated reforms to create a new high ground for reform and opening up in inland areas.
It is imperative to unswervingly consolidate and develop the public sector and unswervingly encourage, support,
and guide the development of the non-public sector, fully stimulating the vitality of various business entities. It is
essential to deepen the market-oriented reform of factors, creating a first-class business environment that is
market-oriented, law-based, and internationalized. Xi noted the need to comprehensively expand opening up within
the country and to the outside world, forming a comprehensive opening-up paradigm that establishes links between
land and sea and between domestic and international markets, and promotes mutual assistance between eastern
and western regions. With further integrated development of the Yangtze River Delta as the spearhead for driving
coordinated regional development within the province, Xi called on the province to play a bigger role in the strategy
for the development of the Yangtze River Economic Belt and the rise of the central region. Anhui should also take
an active part in high-quality cooperation under the Belt and Road Initiative, take solid steps to step up reforms to
integrate domestic and foreign trade, intensify efforts to attract foreign investment and stabilize its flows, and speed
up fostering new growth drivers in foreign trade.

                                                                                Page 3 of 3
             XI CALLS ON ANHUI TO WRITE ITS OWN CHAPTER OF CHINESE MODERNIZATION

Xi called for efforts to develop a new paradigm for integrated urban-rural development. It is imperative for Anhui to
build modern grain industrial, production and management systems, take solid steps to develop high-standard
cropland, develop the Yangtze-Huaihe Valley into a granary, and firmly shoulder the responsibility of ensuring
adequate supply of grain. It is essential for the province to deliver good results in the trial extension of rural land
contracts by another 30 years upon the expiration of the second-round contracts, and improve the supportive
policies for strengthening agriculture, benefiting farmers and bringing prosperity to them, so as to motivate farmers
to grow crops. Xi called for intensified efforts to grow local special and green agricultural products, upgrade the
industries that benefit people in rural areas, improve the overall benefits of the agricultural sector, and strengthen
new rural collective economies. It is imperative to further improve the living environment in rural areas to build
beautiful villages. Xi called for strengthened efforts to promote urbanization with a focus on county seats and
expand the county economy. He noted the need to boost employment for key target groups, and improve policies
for regular assistance to low-income rural residents, thus preventing them from lapsing or relapsing into poverty in
large numbers. He underscored the importance of extending the coverage of such services as education, medical
care, pension, social security and public culture to rural areas. According to Xi, it is imperative to further guide
community-level governance through Party building, and improve efficacy in this regard by applying and developing
the "Fengqiao model" in the new era.

Xi emphasized the necessity to further promote the integrated development of culture and tourism, develop
integrated tourism, and build the cultural tourism sector into a pillar industry. He urged efforts to explore and utilize
the educational function and tourism value of revolutionary cultural resources. He called for the conservation,
inheritance and utilization of traditional villages and traditional architecture, as well as the promotion of creative
transformation and innovative development of fine traditional culture. Xi also urged the promotion of extensive
public participation activities for cultural and ethical progress, as well as the transformation of outmoded habits and
customs, under the guidance of core socialist values. It is imperative to deepen the reform of the cultural system,
optimize cultural industries and market, and create more high-quality cultural products, Xi said.

Xi pointed out that it is necessary to unwaveringly uphold the Party's leadership and strengthen Party building. He
called for efforts to regularize Party discipline study and education, and guide Party members and officials to truly
turn discipline rules into political, ideological, and action consciousness. He urged efforts to implement "three
distinctions (namely the distinctions between errors caused by lack of experience in pilot reforms and deliberate
violations of discipline and law; between errors made in conducting experiments that are not explicitly restricted by
higher-level authorities and arbitrary violations of discipline and law in the face of higher-level authorities' explicit
prohibition; and between unwitting errors made in pursuing development and violations of discipline and law for
personal gains)," to fully mobilize the enthusiasm, initiative, and creativity of Party members and officials in their
work and endeavors. He called for efforts to solve problems concerning officials' malfeasance, inaction, lack of
courage to perform their duties, and incompetence. It is imperative to optimize the systems and mechanisms for
preventing pointless formalities and bureaucratism to ease the burdens on the grassroots. He called for continued
endeavors to improve conduct, tighten discipline, and fight against corruption, so as to consolidate and develop a
good political ecology.

Xi stressed the necessity to do a good job in the economic work of the fourth quarter, to conscientiously implement
the policies and arrangements of the CPC Central Committee, and strive to achieve the economic and social
development objectives for the whole year.

He Lifeng and leading officials of relevant central Party and state departments accompanied Xi during the
inspection tour.


Load-Date: October 20, 2024


  
