

                                                                                                       Page 1 of 5
                        FBF: AI, SENATE REFORM, AND BIG CHALLENGES FOR CONGRESS




      FBF: AI, SENATE REFORM, AND BIG CHALLENGES FOR CONGRESS
                                               States News Service
                                            October 17, 2024 Thursday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 2713 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


The following information was released by Demand Progress:

The Top Line

Good morning, everyone.

I recently had the opportunity to attend LegisTech: Artificial Intelligence in Parliaments, a conference hosted by
Bssola Tech and the Organization of American States here in Washington, D.C. The event, which brought together
experts from around the world, was a fascinating look at the cutting edge of the intersection of AI and parliaments.
A few newly released publications caught my eye, including a list of 60 AI use cases actively under consideration by
parliaments around the world.

I've also been keeping up with the Hansard Society's take on the British parliament's current agenda. It's intriguing
to see the similarities and differences compared to our Congress. They're wrestling with some of the same
issueslike managing member conduct, addressing seniority, and reviewing ethical guidelines.

On a different note, the potential election of Sarah McBride, set to become the first openly transgender member of
Congress, raises important questions about how the House will handle the expected hostile welcome and
commensurate security risks arising from how she is greeted by some quarters of the chamber.

For those who love procedural deep dives, Senate reform is on the table once again. There's buzz about changing
Senate Republican Conference rules and some discussion of changes to the Senate seniority system and concerns
arising from how seniority operates in the House. I also took a quick detour on the effects of tv cameras in the
Senate.

Rounding things out are a discussion of how the Congress keeps track of past-due agency reports and the
Washington Post's look at reimbursing members for work-related expenses.

Parliaments and AI

                                                                                                        Page 2 of 5
                       FBF: AI, SENATE REFORM, AND BIG CHALLENGES FOR CONGRESS

On Thursday and Friday I attended a conference hosted by the Brazilian technology organization Bssola Tech
(Bssola means "compass") and the Organization of American States entitled LegisTech: Artificial Intelligence in
Parliaments. It brought together representatives from many of the parliamentary leaders on AI from around the
world. There were a handful of resources that I thought might be of interest.

First is a newly released brief, "Key considerations of artificial intelligence in parliaments," co-authored by many
of the leading legislative AI practitioners. The paper provides examples of how AI can enhance parliamentary
operations, such as legislative drafting, providing guidance on parliamentary procedures, managing archives,
generating transcripts, and supporting constituent relations.

In addition, there are two significant publications that provide guidance for AI use in parliaments. There's "Using
Generative AI in Parliaments," published by the Inter-Parliamentary Union in April, which provides a 30,000 foot
consideration of the topic. (It's just four pages long). The Westminster Foundation's May 2024 "AI guidelines for
parliaments" is more robust, at 90 pages.

A final resource is an index of parliamentary use cases for AI in parliaments. It's notable because it is continuously
updated by the Inter-Parliamentary Union's Centre for Innovation in Parliament. It documents at least 60 use cases
developed by parliaments, with attribution to the relevant parliament and a significant description of considerations
for implementation. Just a reminder: a use case describes how a system should work, not necessarily that it has
been implemented. (I'm keeping a running list of parliamentary AI resources here.)

They're just like us

I've been reading the Hansard Society's weekly email on the British parliament and it is fascinating to see the
similarities and differences between there and here. For example, issues their newsletter addresses include:

Drafting legislation too broadly, before the details are hammered out, which would give the administrative agencies
(the ministers) too much power

Addressing whether and how to disclose or limit gifts to members, managing online registries (with imperfect
disclosure), and updating the code of conduct. In addition, they'll determine whether to limit outside income for MPs
from media appearances, book deals, etc.

They have "private bills" that address a broad policy issue but weren't announced by the governing majority as part
of their program. They do get debate time, as a matter of lottery, but the odds of success seem low.

The party groups appoint members of the select committees.

They have (and still use, unlike us) petitions, and they have a petitions committee, including the capability of
receiving e-petitions.

They use a liaison committee, composed of the select committee chairs, whose job is to "scrutinize" the Prime
Minister and provide a strategic overview of committee activities

They're looking to increase the number of days Parliament is in session from 2 ' days to 4 days a week.

They're looking at bolstering contempt of Parliament.

They're considering imposing mandatory retirement in the House of Lords at the age of 80.

Creating a welcoming Congress

The anticipated election of Sarah McBride, who would be the first openly transgender member of Congress, likely
will be accompanied by a strain on comity and a rise in security threats, according to NOTUS.

                                                                                                       Page 3 of 5
                     FBF: AI, SENATE REFORM, AND BIG CHALLENGES FOR CONGRESS

We can expect some members to intentionally and performatively misgender McBride both as an expression of
their values and in the hopes of prompting censure for the purpose of raising their profile and cashing in. Such
mistreatment will also increase security threats to McBride.

Fix the Senate?

Now is the time to reform Senate Republican Conference rules, writes James Wallner and Kevin Kosar, because
Republican senators have a great amount of leverage as their current leader departs that role. Will they use it?

Sen. Mike Lee put pen to paper to outline how he believes the Senate Republican Conference should be reformed.
POLITICO's Rachel Bade has the story and Sen. Lee's letter. Among his proposals: limit the leader's ability to fill
the amendment tree unless 3/4s of conference agree; four weeks of debate for omnibus spending proposals; and
prohibit the leader from whipping measures and nominees unless a majority of the conference agrees.

Paul Kane joined the bandwagon, floating without attribution or much analysis a handful of vague ideas of variable
quality to reform the Senate. They include making it easier (somehow) to move legislation to the floor; ending the
seniority system; gagging newly elected Senators, and banning cameras. Let's dig in a bit.

There are many myths about the Senate seniority system. For one, it did not exist in the Senate for much of its early
history. As Senator Packwood noted in an essay published in 1975, committee chairman were initially chosen
based on who had the most votes (1797-1823), by the presiding officer (1823-1826), by a separate ballot of the
Senate (1826-1828), by appointment of the president pro tempore (1828-1833), by separate ballot (1833-1837), by
presiding officer (1837-1841), and so on. In 1846, the Senate moved to choosing chairs by the caucus. That change
was made, he writes, because "the Senate was tired of balloting for weeks to choose chairman and fill the
committees. It distrusted the Vice-President.... [The seniority system] enabled the parties to rapidly organize the
Senate and assured succession to the chairmanship on the basis of party loyalty."

For an instructive look at the House's efforts to curtail the seniority system, look no further than an excellent,
unbiased, and short (!) fact sheet from the Democratic Study Group in 1970. The House's system was of recent
origin, established (but also routinely violated) as a guideline post-1910 and not becoming invariable practice until
post WWII. The fact sheet lays out arguments for the seniority system, in opposition, as well as alternatives and
modifications. Many of those arguments could apply in the Senate context.

The seniority question is still relevant in the House context, too, as a Bloomberg Government article by Maeve
Sheehey points out. Should Democrats retake the House, a number of committee chairs may no longer be fit to
serve. How will they be handled?

On televising Senate proceedings, a historian might note that Senate committees had cameras much longer than
the House. In fact, political scientists used to wring their hands that the Senate was vastly overshadowing the
House. In the 1970s, Catholic University professor Michael Robinson promulgated several laws of videopolitics I
think a play on Isaac Asimov's three laws of robotics the second of which was "television alters the popularly
perceived importance of institutions and individuals in direct proportion to the amount of coverage provided."

Kane implies prohibiting cameras on the Senate floor would result in real debates or more compromise. The most
likely result would be a ghost-town, as the only remaining incentive to speak on the floor would disappear. If he
wants Senators on the floor, he should demolish the Senate office buildings, require members at their desks in the
chamber, and eliminate the internal broadcast system.

If he wants senators to negotiate with one another, he must find a way to weaken party accountability and electoral
accountability.

The history of changes in procedure in both chambers are often a catspaw for moving power around. Are there
enough members with a coherent agenda who are being slighted by the current circumstances that they're willing to
push for a change?

                                                                                                       Page 4 of 5
                     FBF: AI, SENATE REFORM, AND BIG CHALLENGES FOR CONGRESS

If anyone is interested in what I'd suggest, my most recent recommendations for strengthening the Senate were
issued for the 117th Congress little has changed since then in how the chamber is managed, unfortunately. I didn't
write recommendations for the Senate Democratic Caucus or Republican Conference rules, which is where a lot of
power is exercised, but I did write recommendations for the House Democratic Caucus Rules for the 118th, which I
could brush up should I manage to find additional resources and time. You can see here all the amendments to the
conference and caucus rules proposed in the House for the 118th.

Speaker Johnson, for his part, is floating raising the threshold on the motion to vacate and making an ill-defined
threat of future punishment for members who vote against rules. Who would guess a speaker would want to
centralize institutional power in the hands of the party leadership?

Public Access to Congressionally Mandated Reports

More than 500 Congressionally Mandated Reports are available on the Government Publishing Office's website ten
months after the agency stood-up its online repository. These are the reports agencies are required by law to
submit to Congress, and the creation of a central repository makes it easier for Congressional staff to access them
all in one place and obviates the need for the public and journalists to file FOIA requests for access.

Information on how to use the repository, including training materials that show how you can find reports due to a
particular committee, are available online. Seventy-five federal agencies have contributed to the repository so far.

There is no complete list of all the reports that agencies are required by law to submit to Congress, which makes it
hard to know whether agencies are submitting all the reports that they are required to upload.

The House Clerk does annually generate a partial list of the reports, however, in a report entitled "Reports to be
Made to Congress," issued pursuant to House rules. The January 2024 report can be found here and is 418 pages
long. The Clerk's report only includes a list of reports due to the House or Senate, and not due to committees and
subcommittees. In theory, it is possible to crosswalk the list of reports published on GPO's website against the list
of the reports we know agencies must submit to identify missing and late reports.

Empowering GPO to make sure it receives all mandatory reports, including reports sent to committees and
subcommittees, would require additional effort. Fortunately, the report accompanying the House Appropriations
Committee FY25 bill would direct the House Clerk in collaboration with other stakeholders to assess what would be
required to expand the Clerk's list of "reports to be made to Congress" to include reports due to committees and
subcommittees. Meanwhile, Rep. Quigley submitted testimony to the House Rules Committee on Member Day to
update the House Rules to require the list generated by the Clerk to include all reports due to Congress, including
its committees and subcommittees.

Broadening who is able to serve in the House

The Washington Post published a follow-up article on member reimbursements for housing and expenses that did
not contain a single on-the-record quote in favor or in opposition to the program. The program, instituted with
bipartisan support, allows members to claim reimbursement from their Member Representation Account for work-
related housing in D.C. and other expenses subject to a daily cap.

The Post's main gripe is that the rule does not require members to submit receipts, which it believes creates the
possibility of fraud. Per the House's announcement as reported by POLITICO, the "alternative expense and
vouchering reimbursement process [] does not require the submission of receipts to reduce burdens and address
the potential security risks." Meals and incidentals are capped at $79 and can claim rental and associated costs
capped at a daily rate of $172 or $258, depending on the House's schedule that month.

Odds and ends

Proxy voting for moms with newborns is the focus of a smart Roll Call story that summarizes competing proposals
to allow new parents to take care of their kids and serve their constituents. Even folks who generally oppose proxy
voting may make an exception in this case.

                                                                                                        Page 5 of 5
                     FBF: AI, SENATE REFORM, AND BIG CHALLENGES FOR CONGRESS

The politics of disaster relief was the focus of my blogpost for GovTrack.

Hanging around the Dunkin? The Office of the Whistleblower Ombuds will be hanging out on Wednesday, Oct. 16th
from 10-11:30... with complementary donuts and coffee.

Pam Wright, the National Archives' Chief Innovation Officer, gets a well-deserved close-up in the Washington Post.
(Congratulations on being named a member of the inaugural Open Government Federal Advisory Committee).

Fixing the Senate nomination process was the focus of a Senate Rules Committee hearing last December, and the
Senate has now published a transcript of that proceeding, which includes questions for the record that start on page
72.

Vandalizing the Internet Archive is as senseless as throwing soup on every book at the Library of Congress, but
alas a DDos attack took the site down on October 9th and it's still running in safe mode. The Internet Archive
contains an incredible amount of information, including a crawl of congressional websites at the end of every
Congress and a ton of useful older research into the Legislative branch.

The committee report for the bill to sunset the Advisory Committee on the Records of Congress is now publicly
available from the Committee on House Administration.

CBO scores CBO. Two CBO bills got their CBO scores. The CBO Oversight Act, which would require the CBO
director to testify at four committee hearings annually, would have no effect on the deficit (although it would take up
a fair amount of the Director's time). The Congressional Budget Office Scheduling Reform Act, which requires CBO
to "publish on its website an annual schedule of the expected publication dates of major recurring reports," was also
scored as zero budgetary impact.

Executive branch open government events

The Open Government Secretariat at GSA shared information about a number of upcoming (Executive branch)
open government events.

Lessons for Open Government and Civic Engagement for D.C, co-organized by the DC Open Government
Coalition. Tuesday, October 15th, 5-6:30 PM ET, in person only. Register here.

1st Open Government Federal Advisory Committee Administrative meeting. This virtual meeting will only discuss
administrative matters. Friday, October 16th, 1-3:30 PM ET, virtual only. Register here.

Inaugural Open Government Federal Advisory Committee meeting. This hybrid meeting will review the OG FAC
charter, hear from senior government officials, and begin the independent advisory committee's work. Register for
in-person or virtual attendance.


Load-Date: October 17, 2024


  
