

                                                                                                          Page 1 of 6
                      COP29 climate conference in Azerbaijan : U-M experts available to comment




 COP29 climate conference in Azerbaijan: U-M experts available to comment
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                          November 11, 2024 Monday 8:47 PM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 2966 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: ANN ARBOR, Michigan

Body


The University of Michigan issued the following news:

EXPERTS ADVISORY

Negotiators from nearly 200 countries have gathered in Baku, Azerbaijan for the two-week COP29 conference in an
effort to advance global climate solutions, with climate finance being a priority of this year's U.N. meeting. University
of Michigan experts are available to comment.

Jonathan Overpeck is an interdisciplinary climate scientist and dean of the School for Environment and
Sustainability. He is an expert on climate and weather extremes, sea-level rise, the impacts of climate change and
options for dealing with it. He served as a lead author on the authoritative Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change 2007 and 2014 reports.

"COP29 needs to continue the acceleration of climate action globally in several key ways," he said. "The first is to
be clear that the goal of global decarbonization is more important than ever, and that every country needs to
increase their climate-action ambition. The second is to cement agreement on a goal to phase out the global use of
fossil fuels by a set date in the future. The third is to strengthen efforts by wealthy countries who have contributed
the most to climate change to help low and middle-income countries decarbonize their energy systems and mobility.
And the fourth is for the same wealthy countries to increase their 'loss and damage' funding to help low and middle-
income countries recover from the increasing rate of disasters due to the global climate change they did little to
cause.

"The dawn of a new federal administration in the United States is no excuse for slowing the pace of climate action
around the globe. Climate change is wreaking more havoc globally than ever before, and fossil fuels are the reason.
COP29 needs to make it clear that the nations of the world are committed to halting climate change and helping
those who need assistance in dealing with the climate change that cannot be halted. Climate action must accelerate
even more starting with COP29."

                                                                                                          Page 2 of 6
                    COP29 climate conference in Azerbaijan : U-M experts available to comment

Contact: overpeck@umich.edu

Jennifer Haverkamp, a veteran of seven U.N. climate summits, is a former ambassador and special representative
in the Obama State Department, where she led U.S. negotiating teams to successful climate agreements under the
Montreal Protocol and the U.N. International Civil Aviation Agreement. She is the director of the Graham
Sustainability Institute and a professor of practice at the Law School and Ford School of Public Policy, teaching the
law of international climate change.

Her areas of expertise include United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change diplomacy and
negotiating dynamics, short-lived climate pollutants such as methane and hydrofluorocarbons, and issues at the
intersection of climate change and international trade and competitiveness.

"The key deliverable for this COP is an ambitious new climate finance goal to replace the $100 billion per year
target set in 2009," she said. "The U.S. election results throw a huge wrench in that process, with troubling
implications not only for the generosity of other countries but also for the level of ambition nations will bring to next
year's round of climate action pledge-setting. That said, the U.N. climate community has navigated U.S. policy shifts
before and will continue to do so."

Contact: jhaver@umich.edu, 202-316-4914

Richard Rood is a professor emeritus of climate and space sciences and engineering at the College of Engineering,
an expert in climate change modeling and a co-principal investigator for GLISA, one of 12 NOAA Climate
Adaptation Partnerships teams that focus on helping the nation prepare for and adapt to climate variability and
change. Prior to 2005, he held several leadership positions at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center.

"We need targeted research on tipping points, such as when we will pass the point of no return with the melting of
ice sheets. We need far more research on ocean circulation and how quickly it might change. Because we are
increasingly talking about geoengineering as a treatment for our inability to manage carbon dioxide and methane,
we need to know much more about the consequences of such decisions," Rood said.

"But because of the emergence of the oil industry as a manager of the messaging, I have been discouraged by the
outcomes of the Conference of the Parties since COP26 in Glasgow. I expect this influence to continue and
advance in COP29. The COPs are important meetings that keep us talking and synthesizing what we know, but
there is limited ability to move things forward in the COPs because actions are mostly voluntary and there is the
requirement for consensus on all statements. Oil companies and oil producing nations are investing and expanding,
in many cases with market-distorting government support. The outcome of the U.S. election reinforces that the U.S.
is not a reliable partner in the global community. We are increasingly reliant on market forces to address climate
change mitigation, and too much policy is focused on keeping fossil fuels profitable and plentiful."

Contact: rbrood@umich.edu

Liesl Eichler Clark of the School for Environment and Sustainability is U-M's first director of climate action
engagement. She leads a new initiative aimed at linking the university's expanding sustainability research,
collaborations and engagement with external partners to accelerate climate action across the state of Michigan and
beyond.

Previously, Clark served as director of the Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes and Energy. She is
an entrepreneur in the clean energy and sustainability space and co-founded the clean energy consulting firm 5
Lakes Energy. She was instrumental in the creation of the Michigan Energy Innovation Business Council and
served as its president for three years.

"The gathering at COP29 looks different in some ways after the U.S. election, but in other ways, the work is still the
same," she said. "After another hottest year on record and record-setting weather disasters, people are feeling the
urgency of our response. Michigan has set a path for the manufacturing Midwest and the U.S. to transition our grid
safely and quickly to clean energy resources, which is also resulting in job creation and economic opportunity for

                                                                                                            Page 3 of 6
                    COP29 climate conference in Azerbaijan : U-M experts available to comment

Michiganders. Our focus remains on greening the grid, driving clean innovation in industry, electrifying vehicles and
increasing public transit, repairing and decarbonizing homes and businesses, and protecting Michigan's land and
water.

"Michigan's new initiative to accelerate clean industry investment in people and projects will leverage federal dollars
and expand their impact, making people's lives better by increasing jobs, updating homes and lowering energy bills.
The future is always changing. In Michigan, instead of predicting the future, we work to enable it."

Contact: lieslec@umich.edu

Jeremy Bassis is a professor of climate and space sciences and engineering at the College of Engineering who
studies ice sheet and glacier dynamics and sea level rise. He is also a co-principal investigator of a GLISA-funded
project developing plans for more resilient flooding infrastructure in Detroit's Jefferson-Chalmers neighborhood.

"At this point we are seeing accelerating sea level rise, tragically damaging global warming-fueled hurricanes,
floods, heat and drought. All of these are only going to get worse with devastating impacts on our cities and
communities that were designed for a climate very different from today," he said. "At the same time we are heading
toward several climate tipping points, like the arrest of Atlantic Meridional Overturning Circulation (the global
conveyor belt that moves ocean water across the globe) and irreversible ice sheet collapse that will irrevocably
change climate in ways that models struggle to predict. We used to talk about rapidly transitioning away from fossil
fuels, but today we continue to dawdle on those efforts.

"The COP meetings have been increasingly discouraging, and with the oil industry taking a greater role managing
these meetings and the recent presidential election, it feels like the COP meetings are on life support. Although the
international meetings attract a lot of media attention, most of the progress is going to take place in local
communities, where the real work is going to be done. Scientists, engineers and the public shouldn't underestimate
the opportunities at the local level to work together to reduce emissions and start to adapt."

Contact: jbassis@umich.edu

Todd Allen is the chair of nuclear engineering radiological sciences at the College of Engineering, director of the
Fastest Path to Zero Initiative and co-director of MI Hydrogen.

"In the United States, electrical utilities are increasingly recognizing that the demand for electricity is growing rapidly
due to the needs of data centers, the onshoring of manufacturing centers and the growth of electrification for needs
like transportation," he said. "To support this requires an increased production of firm, always-on, zero-carbon
electricity such as nuclear power. Growing on the COP28 pledge to triple nuclear production by 2050, the COP29
process is expected to further define the pathway towards zero carbon systems that likely include an increasing
amount of nuclear energy."

Contact: traumich@umich.edu

Mosharaf Chowdhury is an associate professor of electrical engineering and computer science at the College of
Engineering. His lab designs tools to measure and optimize AI's electricity consumption, which is becoming an
increasingly larger contributor to climate change.

"Generative Artificial Intelligence adoption and its energy consumption are skyrocketing," he said. "For instance,
training GPT-3, a precursor to ChatGPT, consumed an estimated 1.3 GWh of electricity in 2020. By 2022, Amazon
trained a single large language model that consumed 11.9 GWh, enough to power over a thousand U.S.
households for a year. AI inference consumes even more energy because a model trained once serves millions.

"This surge will not only inflate carbon emissions and curtail efforts to reduce future carbon emissions, but also
hinder the deployment of AI services in places without high-capacity electricity grids, widening inequality gaps
across communities. COP29 events will discuss many facets of AI's energy consumption, and we need a concerted
effort to curtail AI's runaway power and energy demands without sacrificing the benefits it can bring."

                                                                                                       Page 4 of 6
                   COP29 climate conference in Azerbaijan : U-M experts available to comment

Contact: mosharaf@umich.edu

Greg Keoleian, professor of sustainable systems at the School for Environment and Sustainability, is co-founder
and co-director of the Center for Sustainable Systems and co-director of MI Hydrogen, U-M's hydrogen initiative.

Keoleian develops life-cycle models to analyze decarbonization pathways and accelerate sustainability solutions for
clean energy transitions, alternative vehicle technologies, buildings and infrastructure, and food systems. He was
named to the Reuters Hot List of the world's top climate scientists in 2021.

"The nation and world are already experiencing the devastating impacts and costs of climate change through
flooding, wildfires, heat stress and droughts. Billion-dollar weather and climate disaster events in the U.S. and
around the world are intensifying and increasing in frequency," he said. "Climate finance, a COP29 theme, is critical
for funding climate action to reduce carbon emissions and climate impacts. Financing is needed in both developing
and developed countries to accelerate solutions that will reduce the future damages and yield benefits, such as
energy and cost savings and job creation.

"Large-scale climate financing by the public and private sector is dependent on government, business and industry
leadership. Leadership needs to better prioritize the longer-term climate crisis that will disproportionately impact
vulnerable populations and future generations. At the federal level, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and the
Inflation Reduction Act are exemplary policies that are achieving multiple goals. Both are helping drive down
greenhouse gas emissions while revitalizing U.S. energy industry competitiveness, creating jobs and benefiting
under-resourced communities. Such bold clean energy and climate action commitments are essential but highly
uncertain given recent election results. Delaying greater investment in climate action means higher costs of living,
greater future property damages and insurance costs, and irreversible biosphere impacts that threaten all
populations."

Contact: gregak@umich.edu

Barry Rabe is a professor of environmental policy at the Ford School of Public Policy and a senior fellow with the
Brookings Institution, with courtesy appointments in the Program in the Environment, Department of Political
Science and School for Environment and Sustainability.

"COP28 saw some major advances in international climate policy addressing so-called 'super pollutants,' including
methane, nitrous oxides and hydrofluorocarbons, that have short-lived but intensive climate impacts. These
advances were prompted in part by expanding American domestic efforts and global outreach," he said. "COP29
launches in the aftermath of the American election and will represent an initial test of how other nations respond to
the return of Donald Trump to the presidency in terms of their own ongoing engagement in this area."

Contact: brabe@umich.edu

Sue Anne Bell is an associate professor at the School of Nursing. Her research focuses on the long-term impact of
disasters on health and public health emergencies, particularly among older adults. She is clinically active in
disaster response through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services National Disaster Medical System
with over a dozen recent deployments including to the COVID-19 response, Hurricane Maria and Irma and the
California wildfires.

She will attend the COP29 conference.

"This year's COP will see health have a bigger spotlight than in years past. The timing could not be more urgent,"
she said. "Risk for more frequent and severe extreme weather events--with record-breaking extreme heat,
devastating wildfires with smoke covering large portions of the United States and unprecedented hurricanes--is
expected to increase globally without aggressive action to stall or reverse some of the effects of climate change.
Extreme weather events disproportionately affect countries, communities and individuals that have less resources,
and the reasons why certain groups are disadvantaged on a daily basis will play out in greater force during these
events.

                                                                                                          Page 5 of 6
                    COP29 climate conference in Azerbaijan : U-M experts available to comment

"Investments in supporting communities globally to withstand and recover from extreme weather events--and
focusing on people most at risk--are critically needed and are the springboard for efforts meant to curb and prepare
communities for the effects of climate change.

"Communities will need years of support to be able to see positive impacts, however, and any investments into
climate resilience must be in for the long haul. At COP29, we will see a greater focus on centering climate change
and health initiatives, focusing on climate action that prioritizes health as a driver for building climate resilience."

Contact: sabell@umich.edu

Aimee Classen is the director of the University of Michigan Biological Station and a professor in the Department of
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology. Founded in 1909, the U-M Biological Station is one of the nation's largest and
longest continuously operating field research stations. Laboratories, classrooms and cabins are tucked into more
than 11,000 acres along Douglas Lake in northern Michigan to support long-term science research and education.

Classen is an ecosystem and global change ecologist who explores how ecological interactions influence the
atmosphere's carbon cycling process. Her research uses a combination of observations, experiments and models
to explore the influence of climate change on biodiversity in ecosystems spanning northern Michigan forests and
wetlands to mountain tops around the world. Recently the Classen group has been exploring how changes in winter
impact terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems.

"We need to include into our carbon, conservation and health discussions how changing winters are influencing
natural-human landscapes," she said. "Declining snowpack accompanies more freeze-thaw and rain-on-snow
events, and that is leading to increased flooding and nutrient transport out of ecosystems during winters with
cascading impacts on forest productivity, water quality, and human health in the summer and year round."

Contact: aclassen@umich.edu

Kai Zhu is an associate professor at the School for Environment and Sustainability. His research examines the
ecological responses to climate change, with a particular focus on biodiversity. Zhu's recent paper highlights the
rapid shifts in grassland communities driven by climate change, offering crucial insights for restoration strategies
and conservation efforts in these ecosystems.

"The importance of COP29 cannot be overstated as the urgency to address climate change accelerates. Our
ecosystems, such as grasslands, are responding to climate changes almost in real time, making it critical to
implement effective global strategies sooner rather than later. This conference represents a pivotal moment for the
international community to come together and commit to actionable steps that can mitigate the severe impacts we
are already witnessing," he said. "It's time to prioritize climate change mitigation at the forefront of global policy to
ensure a sustainable future for our planet."

Contact: zhukai@umich.edu

***

Original text     here:    https://news.umich.edu/cop29-climate-conference-in-azerbaijan-u-m-experts-available-to-
comment/

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8918236 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: November 11, 2024

                                                                                              Page 6 of 6
                  COP29 climate conference in Azerbaijan : U-M experts available to comment



