

                                                                                                 Page 1 of 4
      Bloomberg New Economy Announces 2024 Class of 'Catalysts' in Recognition of Their Bold Thinking and
                                                Action




         Bloomberg New Economy Announces 2024 Class of 'Catalysts' in
                 Recognition of Their Bold Thinking and Action
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                          October 17, 2024 Thursday 9:22 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 1681 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: NEW YORK

Body


Bloomberg Media issued the following news on Oct. 16, 2024:

***

This year's cohort of 16 visionaries hail from 13 different countries and regions, each spearheading exciting
innovations across Africa, Asia, Latin America, North and South America

Meet the class of 2024 HERE [View class in the link at bottom.]

***

Today, Bloomberg announced the 2024 class of Bloomberg New Economy Catalysts, a global group of
breakthrough innovators, scientists, policymakers and entrepreneurs, whose innovations, efforts and objectives are
contributing to a safer, healthier, connected and more sustainable world. Created in 2021, the Catalyst community
is both a recognition of their contributions and a launchpad that can scale their ideas. These hand selected
visionaries are recognized for their impact in areas including Finance, Commerce, Sustainability, Resilience and
Security. They will be convening later this month at Bloomberg New Economy at B20 in Sao Paulo.

This year, Bloomberg's Editorial team selected this standout group based on their achievement in the following four
categories: Developing leading-edge technologies that can be scaled or is already positively impacting emerging
economies; Advancing solutions that have a measurable impact in improving lives, expanding access and
promoting inclusion; Galvanizing the private sector to invest and monetize new ideas, embracing new possibilities in
emerging markets and around the world; and leading forward-thinking organizations, initiatives and ideas that are
challenging the status quo and have the potential to create a more sustainable future. You can find out more about
the selection process here (https://www.bloombergneweconomy.com/catalysts/).

                                                                                                Page 2 of 4
     Bloomberg New Economy Announces 2024 Class of 'Catalysts' in Recognition of Their Bold Thinking and
                                               Action

"The Catalyst program is one of our most rewarding initiatives at Bloomberg New Economy. Thanks to the reporting
and intelligence gathering of Bloomberg's global newsroom, we're able to identify and celebrate so much talent,
drive and creativity, much of it in the dynamic economies of the Global South," said Erik Schatzker, Editorial
Director of Bloomberg New Economy. "We look forward to making these exceptional individuals part of our growing
network of leaders across the globe and to drawing on their ideas for how to solve the world's most pressing
problems."

The 2024 Class of Catalysts are:

* Ola Brown, General Partner, HealthCap Africa: The leading sector focused venture firm in Africa investing in
healthtech and fintech assets that create a healthier world. It has invested in more than 16 startups, raised more
than $100m in follow-on capital and created over 1000 jobs reaching 2m users and customers. (Nigeria)

* Claudia Del Pozo, Founder & CEO, Eon Institute: The women-led think-tank serves as a neutral platform that
unites governments, businesses, universities, multilateral organizations, and civil society in Latin America to engage
in dialogue and pilot initiatives exploring the impact of emerging technologies on society, working together to create
solutions for a fairer future. (Mexico)

* Lisa Dyson, Founder & CEO, Air Protein: Dr. Lisa Dyson and the Air Protein team perfected and brought to life a
concept that NASA had worked on during 1970's to feed astronauts on long space journeys. Air Protein turns
elements of the air into nutrient-rich food and ingredients. (US)

* Peter Fernandez, CEO, Mombak: The company was founded in mid-2021 and aims to be the biggest carbon
removal company through reforesting the Amazon and generating carbon removal credits. So far, the company
manages an area that is four times the size of Manhattan. (Brazil)

* Himanshu Gupta, Co-Founder & CEO, ClimateAi: The company's mission is to climate-proof food and water
supply chains to improve the lives and livelihoods of 100 million farmers globally. The AI-based Climate Intelligence
platform helps companies and governments build resilience in their food and water supply chains to shield them
from the effects of climate change. (US)

* Chelsea Hornby, Founder & CEO, Elle International: Chelsea's non-profit organization was founded in 2017 out of
the need to empower young women. It focuses on women's health to promote dignity, education, health, and socio-
economic inclusion. Her commitment has resulted in her leading efforts to establish South Africa as a global
exemplar in women's health. (South Africa)

* Aniyo Rahebi & Catherine Hutchins, Co-founders & Directors, Good-Edi: The duo created innovative edible coffee
cups as a sustainable and eco-friendly alternative choice to single-use takeaway cups. (Australia)

* Philip Kauders, Co-Founder & CEO, Courageous Land: Courageous Land helps unleash agroforestry's potential
by reforesting degraded landscapes that maximizes carbon removal and organic crop production. The company
leverages its Agroforestry Intelligence(TM) Platform to help land stewards with agroforestry management, financing,
and crop/carbon sales. (Brazil)

* Yuya Nakamura, President & CEO, Axelspace: Space data is increasingly being applied to various industries,
including agriculture, disaster monitoring, environment, news reporting, and other sectors. As a pioneer in the
microsatellite business, Axelspace provides both space data and end-to-end satellite services to clients.

* Wawira Njiru, Founder & CEO, Food 4 Education: The organization provides nutritious heavily subsidized meals
to public school children in 10 counties including Nairobi using cutting-edge technology and services. They have
served over 70 million hot, affordable, nutritious school meals since its inception. (Kenya)

* Kofi Owusu-Nhyira, Founder & CEO, Nsano: Nsano first set out as a value-added service (VAS) provider but has,
over the years, morphed into a leading fintech company that is revolutionizing financial services in Africa through
technologically-driven solutions. (Ghana)

                                                                                                 Page 3 of 4
      Bloomberg New Economy Announces 2024 Class of 'Catalysts' in Recognition of Their Bold Thinking and
                                                Action

* Roberto Patino, Co-Founder & President, Institute 2100: Over the past decade, Patino built Venezuela's largest
grassroots humanitarian initiative, delivering over 20 million hot meals to children in need. Today, through Institute
2100, he is focusing on migration, food security, and the transformative impact of AI on economic opportunities.
(US)

* Shubhendu Sharma, Founder & Director, Afforestt Eco Services: Afforestt Eco Services promotes a standardized
method for seeding dense, fast-growing, native forests in barren lands. Shubhendu's car-manufacturing acumen
has helped the company create a system allowing a multilayer forest of 300 trees to grow on an area as small as a
parking space for six cars, all for less than the price of an iPhone. (India)

* Gonzalo Vial Luarte, Co-Founder and Executive Director, Huella Local Foundation: Vial's Fundacion Huella Local
works with underprivileged local governments through strategic partnerships, acting as a bridge between local
communities, regional and federal government, and the private sector. (Chile)

* Yihao Zhu (Martin Chu), Co-founder & CEO, i2Cool: i2Cool developed the world's leading passive radiative
cooling paint that reduces energy consumption. The paint is used as a cooling source and achieves cooling effects
below ambient temperature through efficient solar reflection. (Hong Kong)

"I'm honored to be part of this year's class of Catalysts and for the recognition of the work we do every day to help
solve Africa's hunger and human capital crisis through locally rooted school feeding programs," said Wawira Njiru,
Founder and CEO of Food 4 Education. "Since launching in 2012, we have served over 70 million hot, affordable
and nutritious meals to public school children thanks to the consistent support of local government, private partners
and parents who share in our vision to invest in Africa's future." She added, "Daily school meals can transform
children's lives. In the next five years, we plan to scale a sustainable blueprint for school feeding, reaching 3 million
school kids a day by 2030. I am excited to work with Bloomberg New Economy and its community of leaders to help
us reach that ambitious goal."

Bloomberg provides a platform to scale and accelerate Catalyst's ideas by providing networking opportunities
throughout the year, most notably at its regular gatherings of the world's most influential CEOs, leaders, visionaries,
scientists, entrepreneurs, and policymakers. Catalysts will also benefit from visibility, awareness and recognition
across Bloomberg's multi-channel network; gain insight and perspective into global cutting-edge technologies,
business processes and finance; and receive peer-to-peer leadership and mentoring throughout the year.

For additional program and speaker details on Bloomberg New Economy Catalyst and the Bloomberg New
Economy visit www.bloombergneweconomy.com. Join the conversation on social media using
#BloombergCatalysts and follow Bloomberg New Economy on X , Facebook, and LinkedIn.

***

About Bloomberg

Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and news leader, gives influential decision makers a
critical edge by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas. The company's strength -
delivering data, news and analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately - is at the core of the
Bloomberg Terminal. Bloomberg's enterprise solutions build on the company's core strength: leveraging technology
to allow customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and information across organizations more
efficiently and effectively. For more information, visit Bloomberg.com/company or request a demo.

***

About Bloomberg Media

                                                                                                 Page 4 of 4
      Bloomberg New Economy Announces 2024 Class of 'Catalysts' in Recognition of Their Bold Thinking and
                                                Action

Bloomberg Media is the world's leading multi-platform media company for business and finance, which draws on
the editorial resources of more than 2,900 editorial professionals globally in 118 countries. Bloomberg Media is the
consumer-facing media organization of Bloomberg L.P.

***

Original text here: https://www.bloombergmedia.com/press/bloomberg-new-economy-announces-2024-class-of-
catalysts-in-recognition-of-their-bold-thinking-and-action/

[Category: BizMedia]

Contact: Rob Koh, rkoh22@bloomberg.net

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8879980 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: October 17, 2024


  
