

                                                                               Page 1 of 3
  UNION MINISTER SH JYOTIRADITYA M. SCINDIA UNVEILS BSNL'S NEW LOGO AND SEVEN CUSTOMER
                                     CENTRIC SERVICES




   UNION MINISTER SH JYOTIRADITYA M. SCINDIA UNVEILS BSNL'S NEW
           LOGO AND SEVEN CUSTOMER CENTRIC SERVICES
                                                States News Service
                                             October 22, 2024 Tuesday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 1077 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: NEW DELHI, India

Body


The following information was released by the Government of India:

With the launch of 7 indigenous services, BSNL from now on will always be at the forefront of technological
innovations in India: Minister Scindia.

BSNL to soon deploy indigenous 5G services, have successfully conducted trials of 5G RAN and core in both the
3.6 GHz and 700 MHz bands.

Under PM Sh Narendra Modi Jis leadership, BSNL has transformed itself from being a follower to now becoming a
leader: Sh Scindia.

Union Minister of Communications and Development of North Eastern Region, Sh Jyotiraditya M. Scindia today
unveiled Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL)s new logo and its seven citizen centric services. These services
represents BSNLs renewed focus on delivering secure, affordable, and reliable connectivity to every corner of
Bharat. The logo was launched in presence of Hon. MoS for Communications and Rural Development, Dr
Pemmasani Chandra Sekhar. The launch ceremony was held at Bharat Sanchar Bhavan and was attended by
Secretary Telecom, CMD BSNLand senior Officers from DoT, BSNL, CDoT, ITI and TCIL.

Alongside the new logo, seven pioneering initiatives were also launched, aimed at revolutionizing how India
connects, communicates, and enhances its digital security.

BSNL from now on will always be at the forefront of technological innovations in India: Minister Scindia

Union Minister of Communication Sh Jyotiraditya M. Scindia while unveiling the new logo shared that BSNLs new
logo is a symbol of our commitment towards customer service. He added that the bouquet of these 7 citizen centric
services, are Made in India, Made for India and Made by India.

He mentioned that BSNL is the only Telecom Service Provider (TSP) in India to launch these seven indigenous
services, which from now on will always keep BSNL at the forefront of technological innovations in India.

                                                                               Page 2 of 3
  UNION MINISTER SH JYOTIRADITYA M. SCINDIA UNVEILS BSNL'S NEW LOGO AND SEVEN CUSTOMER
                                     CENTRIC SERVICES

BSNL to soon deploy 5G services, have successfully conducted trials of 5G RAN and core in both the 3.6 GHz and
700 MHz bands.

Talking about Indias indigenous 5G vision, the Minister shared that BSNL has embarked upon several initiatives to
strengthen Indias ambitious 5G roll-out. We have conducted successful trials of Indigenous 5G RAN and Core in
both 3.6 GHz and 700 MHz bands and India will soon deploy indigenous 5G services. He added that out of the
1,00,000 BSNL 4G sites planned to be set-up by mid-2025, many will also be graduated to 5G connectivity.

Under PM Sh Narendra Modi Jis leadership, BSNL has transformed itself from being a follower to now becoming a
leader: Sh Scindia

Minister Scindia mentioned that under the leadership of Prime Minister Sh Narendra Modi, BSNL has transformed
itself from being a follower to now becoming a Leader. He highlighted that the launch of the new logo and seven
citizen centric services is a testament to the same.

The Minister of State for Communication and Rural Development Dr Pemmasani Chandra Sekhar gracing the
occasion, highlighted that time and again, BSNL has stood as the nations backbone, providing telecom services in
remote, challenging terrains. The Minister emphasized that BSNL has unwavering Govt support and has received
two revival packages . BSNL is deploying fully indigenous 4G equipment showing the capability of technological
advancement . The Minister mentioned that BSNL has skilled manpower and has nationwide reach. Minister
stressed that unveiling of new logo will bring refreshed identity for BSNL and shows the intent of BSNL for
readiness to transform and innovate.

New Logo Vibrancy, Trust, and Nationwide Reach

BSNLs new logo symbolizes strength, trust, and accessibility. The green and white arrows surrounding India
emphasize the company's expansive nationwide reach, while the vibrant orange backdrop signifies warmth and
inclusivity. The bold tagline 'Connecting Bharat' highlights BSNLs unwavering mission to bridge the digital divide by
offering a modern, reliable telecom network that connects both urban and rural India.

Seven New Initiatives Built on Three Key Pillars

Security:

Spam! Free Network

BSNL's spam-blocking solution automatically filtering out phishing attempts and malicious SMS and creates a safer
communication environment for user without the need to issue alerts to customers, ensuring seamless and secure
communication for all users.

Affordability:

BSNL National Wi-Fi Roaming

BSNL is launching a first-of-its-kind seamless Wi-Fi roaming service for its FTTH customers, enabling high-speed
internet access at BSNL hotspots at no extra charge, thus minimizing data costs for users.

BSNL IFTV

A first for India, BSNL's fiber-based intranet TV service offers 500+ live channels and Pay TV through its FTTH
network. This service will be accessible for all BSNL FTTH subscribers without additional charges. The data used
for the TV viewing will not be consuming the FTTH Data pack.

Any Time SIM (ATS) Kiosks

                                                                               Page 3 of 3
  UNION MINISTER SH JYOTIRADITYA M. SCINDIA UNVEILS BSNL'S NEW LOGO AND SEVEN CUSTOMER
                                     CENTRIC SERVICES

A first of it kind- Automated SIM kiosks allow users to purchase, upgrade, port or replace SIMs on 24/7basis ,
leveraging UPI/QR-enabled payments with seamless KYC integration and multi-lingual access.

Reliability:

Direct-to-Device Service

India's first Direct-to-Device (D2D) connectivity solution converges satellite and terrestrial mobile networks to deliver
seamless, reliable connectivity. This groundbreaking technology is particularly useful in emergency situations and
isolated regions, and can enable UPIpayments in such areas.

Public Protection and Disaster Relief as a solution

BSNL's scalable, secure network for disaster response is Indias first guaranteed encrypted communication for
government and relief agencies during crises, enhancing national disaster management capabilities. The robust
network design guarantees uninterrupted connectivity and also uses innovative drone-based and balloon-based
systems to extend coverage during disasters.

First Private 5G in Mines

BSNL introduces reliable, low-latency, 5G connectivity for mining operations in partnership with C-DAC, leveraging
Made-in-India equipment and BSNL's technological expertise. This service enables advanced AI and IoT
applications, in underground mines and large opencast mine which require high speed low latency connectivity,
such as safety analytics, real-time remote control of AGVs, AR enabled remote maintenance, fleet tracking and
optimization, etc.

These launches signal BSNL's continuing commitment in transforming Indias telecom landscape, ensuring that
secure, affordable and reliable connectivity remains accessible to all.


Load-Date: October 23, 2024


  
