

                                                                                                     Page 1 of 2
                       COMER ANNOUNCES FULL COMMITTEE MARKUP ON NOVEMBER 20




     COMER ANNOUNCES FULL COMMITTEE MARKUP ON NOVEMBER 20
                                               States News Service
                                            November 15, 2024 Friday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 585 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


The following information was released by the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Oversight and
Government Reform, Republicans:

Today, House Committee on Oversight and Accountability Chairman James Comer (R-Ky.) announced a markup
will take place on Wednesday, November 20th at 10:30 am ET to consider a series of legislation.

WHAT: Full Committee Markup

H.R. 9491, the Presidential Library Donation Reform Act: Requires presidential library fundraising organizations to
keep records associated with covered information regarding donors who contribute more than $1200 and share that
information quarterly with the Archivist of the United States which the National Archives is required to publish.

H.R. 10133, the Timely Stock Disclosure Act: Amends stock trading disclosure requirements for the President, Vice-
President, Members of Congress, and senior government officials.

H.R. 10132, the Federal Agency Performance Act: Provides additional transparency and accountability
mechanisms to improve performance and program outcomes of federal agencies and builds upon the Government
Performance and Results Act Modernization Act of 2010.

H.R. ____, the Financial Management Risk Reduction Act: Improves single audit requirementswhich current law
requires for recipients of federal financial assistance awards in excess of $300,000 annuallyand enhance oversight
of federal funding while requiring a government-wide analysis of single audit quality. Also directs the development
of analytic tools and strategies to identify cross-governmental risks to federal award funds.

H.R. 9040, the Taxpayer Exposure Risk Reduction Act: Requires a government-wide review of transferring the
financial risk of certain federal programs to the private sector insurance market in a transparent manner.

H.R. 10134, the Natural Disaster Resilience and Recovery Accountability Act: Requires the Office of Management
and Budget to establish a 15-member commission to develop and offer reforms to improve the federal
government's natural disaster resilience and recovery goals and efforts.

                                                                                                        Page 2 of 2
                     COMER ANNOUNCES FULL COMMITTEE MARKUP ON NOVEMBER 20

H.R. 10062, the Freedom to Petition the Government Act: Amends D.C. Code to ensure meetings held in the
District of Columbia between nonprofit organizations headquartered outside of the District and officials of the federal
government are not considered as doing business in the District of Columbia

H.R. 8690, the Stop Secret Spending Act: Creates new reporting requirements for agency federal spending
information to be reported under USAspending.gov to include other transaction agreements, which are contract
mechanisms not covered by the Federal Acquisition Regulation framework.

H.R. 8706, the Dismantle DEI Act: Takes a whole-of-government approach to eliminating authorizations and
funding for government diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) programs and directs the Office of Personnel
Management to abolish all Federal DEI offices and requires the Office of Management and Budget to rescind all
DEI regulations.

H.R. ____, the Modernizing Data Practices to Improve Government Act: Extends the Chief Data Officer Council and
updates the functions of the Council to support agencies in leveraging emerging technologies and artificial
intelligence oversight.

H.R. 8753, To direct the United States Postal Service to designate single, unique ZIP Codes for certain
communities, and for other purposes.

Post Office Naming Bills to be Considered En Bloc

DATE: Wednesday, November 20, 2024

TIME: 10:30 AM ET

LOCATION: 2154 Rayburn House Office Building


Load-Date: November 15, 2024


  
