

                                                                              Page 1 of 3
          INTRODUCING NEW SMITH SCHOOL FACULTY MEMBERS FOR THE FALL 2024 SEMESTER




  INTRODUCING NEW SMITH SCHOOL FACULTY MEMBERS FOR THE FALL
                         2024 SEMESTER
                                              States News Service
                                         September 4, 2024 Wednesday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 1372 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: COLLEGE PARK, Md.

Body


The following information was released by the University of Marylands Robert H. Smith School of Business:

The fall 2024 semester is officially underway at the University of Maryland's Robert H. Smith School of Business.
Among the marks of a new semester are the new (and some familiar) faces taking their place in the Smith
community.

Collectively, these professors will work toward upholding and advancing the Smith School's strategic imperatives
inside and out of the classroom, including its guiding principle that "business is everyone's business."

They'll also impart decades of professional and academic research experience in financial policy regulation,
business law, marketing analytics and artificial intelligence to the next generation of business leaders.

Meet Smith's newest faculty members:

Manmohan Aseri joins the Smith School as an assistant professor in the Decision, Operations and Information
Technologies (DOIT) department, previously holding the same title at the University of Pittsburgh Katz Graduate
School of Business. Aseri's research primarily focuses on AI economics, emphasizing algorithmic bias, fair
advertising, AI adoption and pricing, among other topics. His work has received recognition from the Conference on
Information Systems and Technology, several of which have been published in Management Science and
Information Systems Research. He earned the 2023 Management Science Distinguished Service Award for
Reviewer and was a finalist for the 2023 Management Science Best Paper Award in Information Systems.

Minoo Modaresnezhad, associate clinical professor, received her PhD from the University of North Carolina at
Greensboro in 2017. She was previously an associate professor of management information systems at the
University of North Carolina Wilmington's Cameron School of Business and now serves as a faculty member for
Smith's DOIT department. Her research interests include exploring individual behavior and cognition within
information systems, with recent areas of study including the ethical dimensions of artificial intelligence,
crowdsourcing-based systems, social networking systems, and individual security and privacy. Her work has been

                                                                             Page 2 of 3
         INTRODUCING NEW SMITH SCHOOL FACULTY MEMBERS FOR THE FALL 2024 SEMESTER

published in the Journal of Information Systems Applied Research, International Journal of Technology and Human
Interaction and the Information Systems Education Journal.

Tania Babina will join the finance faculty from Columbia University, where she is an assistant professor. Babina is
an expert in artificial intelligence and business analytics. She studies the drivers of innovation, entrepreneurship
and technological change and their economic impact on firms, workers and society. She earned her PhD from the
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.

Jordan Richmond, assistant professor of finance, holds a PhD from Princeton University. His research primarily
explores corporate finance and public economics. Richmond's paper, "Firm Responses to Book Income Alternative
Minimum Taxes," studying how firms respond to book income alternative minimum taxes, was recently published in
the Journal of Public Economics. He describes his teaching philosophy through the following three principles:
Providing concrete examples with real policy implications, being a resource for students and creating an
environment that encourages students to take risks while learning from mistakes.

Daniel McCarthy will join Smith as an associate professor of marketing from Emory University. McCarthy's research
specialty is the application of leading-edge statistical methods to empirical marketing problems. His research
interests included customer-based corporate valuation, which he popularized, customer lifetime value, limited data
problems, data privacy, and the marketing/finance interface. He also actively researches the causal effect of actions
and events on customer purchase behavior. His research has been published in top-tier academic journals, won
numerous awards and featured in major media outlets. He earned his PhD in statistics from the University of
Pennsylvania.

Xinying Hao, assistant professor of marketing, joins the Smith School from the University of Arizona. Her areas of
expertise include big data research related to digital marketing, mobile targeting and online advertising. She earned
her PhD at the University of Texas at Austin.

Elizabeth Stanwyck, senior lecturer, hails from the Department of Mathematics and Statistics at the University of
Maryland, Baltimore County, and now joins Smith's DOIT department. Her previous research sits at the intersection
of statistics and public health, with some of her published works covering topics such as wastewater treatment and
growth in the Baltimore region, air pollution and children's health. She also previously served as a UMBC Center for
Interdisciplinary Research and Consulting research fellow.

Cathy Chen was hired as a clinical associate professor of marketing and is currently a visiting professor at Bucknell
University. She earned her PhD from UCLA. Her research interests include digital and global marketing, marketing
analytics and strategy, and consumer behavior.

John Silberholz '10, assistant professor, joins the Smith DOIT faculty in the same position he held at the University
of Michigan. His research is in healthcare analytics, and he is particularly interested in clinical trials. He earned his
PhD from MIT and bachelor's degree from the University of Maryland in 2010, with a double major in computer
science and mathematics. As an undergraduate, Silberholz collaborated with Smith professor and mentor Bruce
Golden on research to improve hospital patient care. After graduating from UMD, he won INFORMS' first
undergraduate operations research prize for his work.

Mark Flood, a senior research scholar in the Center for Financial Policy, is leveraging over two decades of
experience in financial policy and regulation at the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, Office of Thrift Supervision,
Federal Housing Finance Board, Federal Housing Finance Agency, and the Office of Financial Research in the U.S.
Department of the Treasury.

George Gao is a visiting clinical professor of finance at the Smith School. He recently held the same teaching
position with the Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management at Cornell University. His research has
featured topics such as hedge funds, tail risks and analyzing monetary policy responses to the subprime and
COVID-19 crises with "respect to their effectiveness in reducing disaster risk."

                                                                            Page 3 of 3
        INTRODUCING NEW SMITH SCHOOL FACULTY MEMBERS FOR THE FALL 2024 SEMESTER

Brian Jefferson, previously a Smith School adjunct professor, sees his appointment this semester as a lecturer and
adjunct professor. Jefferson brings over two decades of experience from PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), where
he focused on the unique tax issues of multinational companies. His professional experience also includes
exposure to tax policy, client service, ethics in business, accounting for income taxes, tax structuring, business
ownership and culture. He is passionate about helping students develop problem-solving mindsets and preparing
them for "a collaborative world that is human-led and technology-driven."

Naman Desai earned his PhD in accounting from Florida State University. He brings over 15 years of teaching
experience to the Smith School, having most recently served as a faculty member at the University of California,
Riverside, and as academic director of its Master of Professional Accountancy program. Desai's teaching history
includes auditing, financial accounting and managerial accounting courses. His research interests are primarily in
auditing and governance, and his papers have been published in Accounting Horizons, the Journal of Information
Systems, the Journal of Business Research and the Journal of Accounting, among others.

Kevin McGarry is no stranger to the Smith community. He's served as an adjunct professor and lecturer of business
law at the school since 2021. This semester, he's continuing to support Smith students in the classroom as a
clinical professor and bringing his substantial academic and professional background in law and business,
extending into medicine, trade-tax, strategy, management, securities, corporate disclosure, compliance and ethics.


Load-Date: September 5, 2024


  
