

                                                                                               Page 1 of 2
         Geographic Solutions Named a Top 25 Work Tech Vendor by the 2024 Inspiring Work Tech Awards




      Geographic Solutions Named a Top 25 Work Tech Vendor by the 2024
                         Inspiring Work Tech Awards
                                                           PR Newswire
                                         September 26, 2024 Thursday 1:42 PM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 510 words
Dateline: PALM HARBOR, Fla., Sept. 26, 2024

Body


PR NewswirePALM HARBOR, Fla., Sept. 26, 2024 /PRNewswire/ --Geographic Solutions, a leading provider of
workforce development software for the government and the public sector, is thrilled to announce that it has been
named a Top 25 Work Tech Vendor by the 2024 Inspiring Work Tech awards.

 The award celebrates the best-in-class tech vendors across the world, celebrating the success and diverse range
of technologies that can drive positive change for an organization and the people within it. Geographic Solutions
was recognized for its commitment to developing innovative software solutions that positively impact job seekers
and career and workforce development agencies."Being recognized as a Top 25 Work Tech Vendor from the
Inspiring Workplaces organization reinforces our commitment to drive positive change within the workforce
industry," said Paul Toomey, President and Founder at Geographic Solutions. "At Geographic Solutions we strive to
develop best-in-class workforce solutions that empower our clients to achieve their goals and help job seekers find
quality employment."This award represents the culmination of a year's worth of inspiring events and growth. This
includes supporting our clients through their reemployment efforts and assisting them in rebuilding their
communities following a natural disaster. It also signifies the promise of reimagining our software in new and
exciting ways, such as the integration of artificial intelligence across our software suite and the implementation of
a secure version of our solutions in prisons for individuals facing parole. This achievement reflects our company
culture, which is built on innovation, collaboration, and a deep commitment to our employees and local
community.Inspiring Workplaces recognizes and celebrates companies that have created exceptional people-first
workplaces. The award acknowledges leaders that have created a positive and inspiring work culture for their
people – where they feel like they belong, resulting in increased engagement, productivity, and overall success.To
view the Top 25 Work Tech Vendors, clickhere.About Geographic SolutionsGeographic Solutions is the nation's
leading provider of software solutions for public sector workforce development and benefits including
unemployment insurance, economic development, human services, corrections, labor market information,
education and vocational rehabilitation. The company has developed state-of-the-art systems for employment and
workforce development agencies for more than 40 states and U.S. territories. Geographic Solutions' software is
currently being utilized by over 1,200 American Job Centers to serve more than 204 million individuals—reaching
over 75% of the job seekers and employers in the country. For more information,
visithttps://www.geographicsolutions.com.                   View      original      content        to      download
multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/geographic-solutions-named-a-top-25-work-tech-vendor-
by-the-2024-inspiring-work-tech-awards-302260322.htmlSOURCE Geographic Solutions, Inc.

                                                                                            Page 2 of 2
      Geographic Solutions Named a Top 25 Work Tech Vendor by the 2024 Inspiring Work Tech Awards


Load-Date: September 26, 2024


 
