

                                                                                           Page 1 of 3
         Food & Water Watch: 1200+ New Yorkers Rebuke Governor Hochul's NYSERDA Nuclear Blueprint




       Food & Water Watch: 1200+ New Yorkers Rebuke Governor Hochul's
                         NYSERDA Nuclear Blueprint
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                           November 8, 2024 Friday 10:17 PM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 1497 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


The Food and Water Watch issued the following news release:

***

New Yorkers Call On Hochul To Say No To Nuclear; Drop Draft Blueprint for Consideration of Advanced Nuclear
Technologies

***

Albany, NY -- Over 1,200 comments have already been submitted in opposition to Governor Hochul's NYSERDA
Draft Blueprint for Consideration of Advanced Nuclear Technologies, in a public comment period which closes
Friday. The draft plan was introduced at a September energy summit in Syracuse, where Hochul first signaled an
embrace of expensive, dirty and dangerous nuclear power.

The public response was swift -- 153 groups wrote to Governor Hochul in September, calling on her to keep New
Yorkers safe and protect the state's Climate Act by keeping new nuclear power out of New York.

Food & Water Watch New York Organizer Laura Shindell said:

"Hochul needs to stop trying to make nuclear happen -- it's not going to happen. New Yorkers are making clear that
new nuclear plants are a nonstarter. Nuclear plants and their radioactive waste are proven to be dirty, dangerous,
and costly. If Hochul wants to keep calling herself a climate leader, she has to drop the nuclear charade now and
double down on building renewables."

Nuclear power has long been proven to be too toxic, too dangerous, too expensive, and too slow to build to be a
climate solution. Yet, an increase in power-hungry technologies, from cryptocurrency to micro-chips and AI, are
driving a nationwide resurgence of calls for nuclear buildout, backed by powerful Big Tech corporations.

                                                                                          Page 2 of 3
        Food & Water Watch: 1200+ New Yorkers Rebuke Governor Hochul's NYSERDA Nuclear Blueprint

Scientists predict a 50 percent probability of a nuclear meltdown at least as costly as the Three Mile Island disaster
every 10-20 years, even as the industry explores re-opening the dangerous plant. Meanwhile, nuclear energy's
lifecycle climate pollution is far higher than that of wind and solar power, as is the cost to build new nuclear plants,
which can range from from 2-7 times the cost of onshore wind or utility scale solar buildout -- often funded by
taxpayer bailout.

"In the wake of Tuesday's national elections, New York's climate leadership is more important than ever. The clean
energy transition is at a critical crossroads," said Adam Flint, Director of Clean energy Programs at the Network for
a Sustainable Tomorrow. "New York's Climate law sets ambitious and appropriate objectives, but the Governor and
the legislature to date have failed to appropriate the necessary funds, and instead the Governor is deviating onto a
dangerous course of false solutions. Nuclear power is a waste -- of money, time, and literally, as any waste
generated at a nuclear facility in the US will remain a danger on-site for millions of years. We are calling on
Governor Hochul to reject nuclear power and fund proven, clean and effective technologies at a level
commensurate with the ambition of New York's climate goals. This is the leadership New York needs with a climate
denier soon to be in the White House."

"Governor Hochul must redirect her energy away from nuclear and towards a just Cap & Invest program, an
empowered NYPA that can build public renewables at the scale we need, and to a whole of government approach
to meeting our climate mandates," said Ryan Madden, Climate & Energy Campaigns Director with the Long Island
Progressive Coalition. "As an organization that was part of the movement to stop the Shoreham nuclear power
plant, which Long Islanders are still paying for today, it's unimaginable to see the resurgence of nuclear when its
failures have been so clear. An investment in new nuclear is a perpetuation of environmental injustice and its health
impacts on women, children and Indigenous communities. And it's an investment in massive cost overruns, at the
expense of proven renewable solutions we have to achieve our climate law."

"With a climate change denier headed to the Oval Office, Governor Hochul must work with a new urgency to rapidly
scale proven and safe renewable energy in New York State, with no time to waste on distractions like too-slow
nuclear power," said Bob Cohen, Policy and Research Director for Citizen Action of New York. "New York can be a
climate leader with proven and safe renewables like solar, wind, and geothermal; but, to do so, Governor Hochul
cannot fall for ultra-expensive, dangerous, and unproven promises of new nuclear facilities in our state."

Ellen Weininger, Director of Educational Outreach at Grassroots Environmental Education said, "We are calling on
Governor Hochul to stop chasing down false solutions and squandering New Yorkers' time and money considering
nuclear energy. It is an exorbitant and inherently dangerous technology which relies heavily on taxpayer subsidies,
generates toxic radioactive waste that lasts for thousands of years, poses serious public health and environmental
risks, and severely overburdens environmental justice communities that have been long standing sacrifice zones in
close proximity to existing nuclear reactors, uranium mines, enrichment sites and nuclear waste dumps. The Draft
Blueprint disregards any consideration of the harmful exposures to known carcinogens, teratogens and mutagens
associated with the entire nuclear life cycle and fails to address the CLCPA requirement that all state agencies
'shall not disproportionately burden disadvantaged communities.' Wasteful investments in slow-to-build nuclear
facilities significantly impede investments in the urgently needed rapid and cost-efficient transition to proven
renewable energy solutions that work now, and will allow New York to meet its CLCPA goals without endangering
the health and safety of its residents."

"When New York passed our nation-leading climate law in 2019, we made a promise to protect each other and our
future," said Avni Pravin, Deputy Director, Alliance for a Green Economy (AGREE). "With a climate denier entering
the White House, it's more important than ever that Governor Hochul keep New York's promise by committing to
safe, proven, and scalable renewable technologies like wind and solar-not break it by forcing New Yorkers to fund
nuclear corporations who will only waste our time, waste our money, and create toxic waste that threatens our
health."

"For more than half a century since I was a student at RPI, I have pushed back against the false claims that have
constantly been repackaged by corporate hucksters about the benefits of nuclear power. As environmental scientist
Barry Commoner pointed out, it is possible to use nuclear power to boil water and make electricity, but it makes as

                                                                                          Page 3 of 3
        Food & Water Watch: 1200+ New Yorkers Rebuke Governor Hochul's NYSERDA Nuclear Blueprint

much sense as using a chainsaw to cut butter. With the United Nations warning that slow action by governments to
stop burning fossil fuels has already opened up the Gates of Hell, building new nuclear plants would come online
long after we will have lost the climate fight. There are far cheaper and safer alternatives with wind, water, solar and
energy conservation that Hochul needs to accelerate if she truly believes that we are in a climate emergency," said
Mark Dunlea, coordinator of PAUSE (People of Albany United for Safe Energy) / 350Albany and chair of the Green
Education and Legal Fund.

"Governor Hochul's nuclear plans are a total misfire. It would cost New Yorkers billions of dollars in higher energy
bills, while generating more and more radioactive pollution. It would put our energy future in the hands of an
industry that has failed us for generations. New Yorkers have already bailed out the nuclear industry eight times
since the 1970s. Last year alone, we paid $530 million to bail out old nuclear power plants-nearly thirty times more
than on expanding renewable energy. The governor has to stop putting the greed of nuclear corporations ahead of
everyone else, and do what the law requires: accelerate the transition to safe, affordable renewable energy," said
Tim Judson, Executive Director of the Nuclear Information and Resource Service.

"The Sierra Club Atlantic Chapter, in accord with National Sierra Club Nuclear Policy, is firmly opposed to New York
State pursuing nuclear power as a solution to meeting the mandated targets of the Climate Leadership and
Community Protection Act (CLCPA). New York needs to focus on proven renewable energy technology that works
now, and should not waste resources, time, and money chasing solutions which will not be ready in the timeframe
of the Climate Leadership and Community Protection Act (CLCPA). Nuclear power has long been proven to be too
toxic, too dangerous, too expensive, and too slow to build to be a climate solution, not to mention being a source of
perpetuating ongoing social and environmental injustice among indigenous and disadvantaged communities," said
Kate Bartholomew, Chair, Sierra Club Atlantic Chapter.

***

Original text here: https://www.foodandwaterwatch.org/2024/11/07/1200-new-yorkers-rebuke-governor-hochuls-
nyserda-nuclear-blueprint/

[Category: Science]

Contact: Phoebe Galt, pgalt@fwwatch.org

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8915447 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: November 8, 2024


  
