

                                                                                                        Page 1 of 5
                                Rocket Companies Announces Third Quarter 2024 Results




                Rocket Companies Announces Third Quarter 2024 Results
                                                           PR Newswire
                                         November 12, 2024 Tuesday 4:05 PM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 3425 words
Dateline: DETROIT, Nov. 12, 2024

Body


PR NewswireGenerated Q3'24 total revenue of $647 million and adjusted revenue of $1.323 billion. Adjusted
revenue exceeded the high end of our guidance rangeReported Q3'24 GAAP net loss of $481 million, or $0.19
GAAP diluted loss per share and adjusted net income of $166 million, or $0.08 adjusted diluted earnings per
shareDelivered Q3'24 adjusted EBITDA of $286 million, the highest in two yearsDETROIT, Nov. 12, 2024
/PRNewswire/ -- Rocket Companies, Inc. (NYSE: RKT) ("Rocket Companies" or the "Company"), the Detroit-based
fintech platform company including mortgage, real estate and personal finance businesses, today announced
results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2024."We delivered strong third-quarter results, expanding
purchase and refinance market share, and increasing adjusted revenue by 32% year-over-year. Our adjusted
EBITDA was the highest in two years," said Varun Krishna, CEO and Director of Rocket Companies. "These
achievements highlight the strength and resilience of the Rocket Superstack—our competitive advantage that
combines our ecosystem, experience, technology and brand. We've demonstrated that whatever the market brings,
we will drive a bright future in helping more Americans achieve the dream of homeownership."

Financial HighlightsGenerated total revenue, net of $647 million and GAAP net loss of $481 million, or $0.19 loss
per diluted share. Generated total adjusted revenue of $1.3 billion and adjusted net income of $166 million, or
adjusted earnings of $0.08 per diluted share.Rocket Mortgage generated $29.8 billion in net rate lock volume, a
43% increase over the same period of the prior year.Rocket Mortgage generated $28.5 billion in closed loan
origination volume, a 28% increase over the same period of the prior year.Gain on sale margin was 2.78%, an
increase of 2 bps over the same period of the prior year.Total liquidity was $8.3 billion, as of September 30, 2024,
which includes $1.2 billion of cash on the balance sheet, $1.8 billion of corporate cash used to self-fund loan
originations, $3.3 billion of undrawn lines of credit, and $2.0 billion of undrawn MSR lines of credit.Servicing
portfolio unpaid principal balance, which includes subserviced loans, was $546.1 billion or 2.6 million loans serviced
as of September 30, 2024. The portfolio generates approximately $1.5 billion of recurring servicing fee income on
an annualized basis.In the quarter, we acquired mortgage servicing right ("MSR") portfolios totaling $311 million,
adding $22.4 billion in unpaid principal balance with a weighted average coupon above our current portfolio,
presenting a strong refinance opportunity as rates decline. From January to October 2024, through bulk acquisitions
and subservicing, we have acquired or committed to add over $70 billion in unpaid principal balance to our serviced
portfolio—a 15% increase from the 2023 year-end balance. This adds 220,000 new clients to our portfolio,
representing prime candidates for future purchases, home equity loans, and refinances.Company HighlightsBoth
purchase and refinance market share expanded year-over-year, driven by numerous optimizations in our
processes, teams, marketing, and technology capabilities.In October, Rocket Mortgage announced a subservicing

                                                                                                           Page 2 of 5
                             Rocket Companies Announces Third Quarter 2024 Results

agreement with Annaly Capital Management, Inc., a leading residential mortgage real estate investment trust.
Under this agreement, Rocket Mortgage will manage servicing and recapture activities for a portion of Annaly's
mortgage servicing rights, with servicing set to begin as early as December 2024.In November, Fitch Ratings
upgraded Rocket Mortgage to 'BBB-', making it the first non-bank mortgage company to achieve an investment-
grade rating from one of the "big three" credit rating agencies in nearly two decades. This milestone underscores
Rocket Mortgage's financial strength, stability, and commitment to disciplined capital management.Our home equity
loan volume grew 78% year-over-year, reinforcing Rocket Mortgage as the largest originator of closed end second
mortgages in the country. Our home equity loan product offers an attractive solution to tap into home equity without
impacting the lower rate on a client's first lien mortgage.In August, we introduced the Welcome Home Rate Break, a
key addition to our affordable product lineup, accessible through our bankers and wholesale partners. Paired with
our ONE+ down payment program, this promotion reduces mortgage rates by 2 percentage points in the first year
and 1 percentage point in the second, delivering meaningful relief for homebuyers. Since launch, we've seen
'Welcome Home Rate Break' drive a 21% increase in usage of our affordable product suite.Our generative and live
chat is now fully integrated across digital platforms, supporting purchase, refinance, and servicing. Chat usage has
accelerated, with interactions more than doubling quarter-over-quarter. Chat offers multiple benefits to our clients
and our business: chat delivers personalized client interactions at scale with 24/7 availability and higher
engagement. It also drives operational efficiency, allowing bankers to handle multiple sessions simultaneously. The
conversion impact is substantial: chat users convert from first interaction to credit pull at three times the rate of non-
users.Rocket Logic Synopsis, our tool for analyzing client interactions—including sentiment and call purpose—now
covers all inbound calls. By the end of October, Rocket Logic Synopsis was supporting 1 million calls per week.
This tool provides valuable insights that enhance our velocity, accuracy, personalization, and conversion rates at
scale.In July, we launched Navigator, our internal AI platform that empowers our team members to analyze and
innovate without the need for additional support from data analysts or engineers. Through an easy conversational
AI interface, this platform enables our team members to create no-code apps, experiment securely with AI,
summarize documents, analyze sentiment, role-play scenarios, and build custom Retrieval Augmented Generation
(RAG) apps for collaboration. In just a few months, our team members have logged more than 52,000 large
language model (LLM) interactions.Powered by our technology, we swiftly supported clients during the recent
Southeast hurricanes. Nearly 70% of affected servicing clients received immediate help with credit suppression, late
fee waivers, and forbearance through self-service digital properties, including our website, AI chat, and interactive
voice response (IVR). Meanwhile, automation reduced collateral underwriting review times by 75%, allowing us to
support our origination clients through a threefold surge in Disaster Inspection Reports—all without disruption.In
July, Rocket Mortgage announced a new partnership with leading financial services provider Ameriprise Financial.
Through this collaboration, Ameriprise clients will receive specialized support from Rocket Mortgage's dedicated
team of mortgage bankers, facilitated by referrals from Ameriprise's 10,000 advisors. Additionally, Ameriprise
clients will benefit from a lender credit of $2,000 and preferred pricing.In September, Rocket Companies held its
first-ever Investor Day in Detroit, where it unveiled the Rocket Superstack and set ambitious market share goals to
double its purchase market share from 4% to 8% and expand refinance share from 12% to 20% by 2027. The
Rocket Superstack consists of four layers: a powerful end-to-end ecosystem, unparalleled experiences, proprietary
technology, and an iconic brand, all working in unison to achieve these goals.Rocket Companies announced
leadership appointments in two newly created roles. Papanii Okai, former Chief Technology Officer at Venmo, has
been named Executive Vice President of Product Engineering, where he will focus on creating AI-driven products to
modernize the homeownership journey, building on Rocket's existing AI tools. Additionally, Dan Sogorka has been
appointed General Manager of Rocket Pro Third Party Origination (TPO), where he will be responsible for
establishing the end-to-end vision and growth of Rocket's wholesale partner channel.Rocket Corporate
Responsibility: For-More-Than-ProfitIn August, the Detroit Parks Coalition, Connect 313 and Detroit city leaders and
community partners announced the completed installation of free public Wi-Fi at five City of Detroit parks to help
bridge the digital divide. The program provides Wi-Fi access to 12,600 residents within a half-mile walking distance
of Bradby, Chandler, Clark, McDuffy, and Palmer Parks. The project was made possible through $265,000 in grants
from the Detroit Pistons Foundation, Rocket Community Fund and Knight Foundation. The Connect 313 Fund was
launched at the Rocket Mortgage Classic PGA Tour event in 2020 as part of the tournament's "Changing the
Course" initiative.In October, the Rocket Community Fund partnered with Black Tech Saturdays to host the first-
ever Detroit Digital Empowerment Summit. This three-day event was designed to help Detroit residents navigate
the city's rapidly evolving tech landscape. During the event, six nonprofit organizations received grants to deliver

                                                                                                       Page 3 of 5
                            Rocket Companies Announces Third Quarter 2024 Results

technology-based education and training to local residents.Fourth Quarter 2024 Outlook2In Q4 2024, we expect
adjusted revenue between $1.05 billion to $1.2 billion.Direct to ConsumerIn the Direct to Consumer segment,
clients have the ability to interact with the Rocket Mortgage app and/or with the Company's mortgage bankers. The
Company markets to potential clients in this segment through various brand campaigns and performance marketing
channels. The Direct to Consumer segment derives revenue from originating, closing, selling and servicing
predominantly agency-conforming loans, which are pooled and sold to the secondary market. The segment also
includes title insurance, appraisals and settlement services complementing the Company's end-to-end mortgage
origination experience. Servicing activities are fully allocated to the Direct to Consumer segment and are viewed as
an extension of the client experience. Servicing enables Rocket Mortgage to establish and maintain long term
relationships with our clients, through multiple touchpoints at regular engagement intervals.Partner NetworkThe
Rocket Professional platform supports our Partner Network segment, where we leverage our superior client service
and widely recognized brand to grow marketing and influencer relationships, and our mortgage broker partnerships
through Rocket Pro TPO ("third party origination"). Our marketing partnerships consist of well-known consumer-
focused companies that find value in our award-winning client experience and want to offer their clients mortgage
solutions with our trusted, widely recognized brand. These organizations connect their clients directly to us through
marketing channels and a referral process. Our influencer partnerships are typically with companies that employ
licensed mortgage professionals that find value in our client experience, technology and efficient mortgage process,
where mortgages may not be their primary offering. We also enable clients to start the mortgage process through
the Rocket platform in the way that works best for them, including through a local mortgage broker.Balance Sheet
and LiquidityTotal available cash was $3.0 billion as of September 30, 2024, which includes $1.2 billion of cash
and cash equivalents, and $1.8 billion of corporate cash used to self-fund loan originations. Additionally, we have
access to $3.3 billion of undrawn lines of credit, and $2.0 billion of undrawn MSR lines of credit from financing
facilities, for a total liquidity position of $8.3 billion as of September 30, 2024.Third Quarter Earnings CallRocket
Companies will host a live conference call at 4:30 p.m. ET on November 12, 2024 to discuss its results for the
quarter ended September 30, 2024. A live webcast of the event will be available online by clicking on the "Investor
Info" section of our website. The webcast will also be available viarocketcompanies.com.A replay of the webcast
will be available on the Investor Relations site following the conclusion of the event.Non-GAAP Financial
MeasuresTo provide investors with information in addition to our results as determined by GAAP, we disclose
Adjusted revenue, Adjusted net income (loss), Adjusted diluted earnings (loss) per share and Adjusted EBITDA
(collectively "our non-GAAP financial measures") as non-GAAP measures which management believes provide
useful information to investors. We believe that the presentation of our non-GAAP financial measures provides
useful information to investors regarding our results of operations because each measure assists both investors
and management in analyzing and benchmarking the performance and value of our business. Our non-GAAP
financial measures are not calculated in accordance with GAAP and should not be considered as a substitute for
revenue, net income (loss), or any other operating performance measure calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Other companies may define our non-GAAP financial measures differently, and as a result, our measures of our
non-GAAP financial measures may not be directly comparable to those of other companies. Our non-GAAP
financial measures provide indicators of performance that are not affected by fluctuations in certain costs or other
items. Accordingly, management believes that these measurements are useful for comparing general operating
performance from period to period, and management relies on these measures for planning and forecasting of
future periods. Additionally, these measures allow management to compare our results with those of other
companies that have different financing and capital structures.We define "Adjusted revenue" as total revenues net
of the change in fair value of mortgage servicing rights ("MSRs") due to valuation assumptions, net of hedges. We
define "Adjusted net income (loss)" as tax-effected net income (loss) before share-based compensation expense,
the change in fair value of MSRs due to valuation assumptions, net of hedges, career transition program and the
tax effects of those adjustments as applicable. We define "Adjusted diluted earnings (loss) per share" as Adjusted
net income (loss) divided by the adjusted diluted weighted average shares outstanding which includes diluted
weighted average Class A common stock and the assumed pro forma exchange and conversion of Class D
common stock outstanding for the applicable period presented. We define "Adjusted EBITDA" as net income (loss)
before interest and amortization expense on non-funding debt, (benefit from) provision for income taxes,
depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation expense, change in fair value of MSRs due to valuation
assumptions, net of hedges and career transition program.We exclude from each of our non-GAAP financial
measures the change in fair value of MSRs due to valuation assumptions, net of hedges, as this represents a non-

                                                                                                           Page 4 of 5
                             Rocket Companies Announces Third Quarter 2024 Results

cash non-realized adjustment to our total revenues, reflecting changes in assumptions including discount rates and
prepayment speed assumptions, mostly due to changes in market interest rates, which is not indicative of our
performance or results of operation. We also exclude effects of contractual prepayment protection associated with
sales of MSRs. Adjusted EBITDA includes Interest expense on funding facilities, which are recorded as a
component of Interest income, net, as these expenses are a direct cost driven by loan origination volume. By
contrast, interest and amortization expense on non-funding debt is a function of our capital structure and is
therefore excluded from Adjusted EBITDA.Our definitions of each of our non-GAAP financial measures allow us to
add back certain cash and non-cash charges, and deduct certain gains that are included in calculating Total
revenue, net, Net (loss) income attributable to Rocket Companies or Net (loss) income. However, these expenses
and gains vary greatly, and are difficult to predict. From time to time in the future, we may include or exclude other
items if we believe that doing so is consistent with the goal of providing useful information to investors.Although we
use our non-GAAP financial measures to assess the performance of our business, such use is limited because they
do not include certain material costs necessary to operate our business. Our non-GAAP financial measures can
represent the effect of long-term strategies as opposed to short-term results. Our presentation of our non-GAAP
financial measures should not be construed as an indication that our future results will be unaffected by unusual or
nonrecurring items. Our non-GAAP financial measures have limitations as analytical tools, and you should not
consider them in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under U.S. GAAP. Because of
these limitations, our non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as measures of discretionary cash
available to us to invest in the growth of our business or as measures of cash that will be available to us to meet our
obligations.For financial outlook information, the Company is not providing a quantitative reconciliation of adjusted
revenue to the most directly comparable GAAP measure because the GAAP measure cannot be reliably estimated
and the reconciliation cannot be performed without unreasonable effort due to their dependence on future
uncertainties and adjusting items that the Company cannot reasonably predict at this time but which may be
material.Forward Looking StatementsSome of the statements contained in this document are forward-looking
statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements are generally identified by the
use of words such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "potential,"
"predict," "project," "should," "target," "will," "would" and, in each case, their negative or other various or comparable
terminology. These forward-looking statements reflect our views with respect to future events as of the date of this
document and are based on our management's current expectations, estimates, forecasts, projections,
assumptions, beliefs and information. Although management believes that the expectations reflected in these
forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have
been correct. All such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside
of our control, and could cause future events or results to be materially different from those stated or implied in this
document. It is not possible to predict or identify all such risks. These risks include, but are not limited to, the risk
factors that are described under the section titled "Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission ("SEC"). These factors should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read in conjunction with
the other cautionary statements that are included in this document and in our SEC filings. We expressly disclaim
any obligation to publicly update or review any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information,
future developments or otherwise, except as required by applicable law.About Rocket CompaniesFounded in
1985, Rocket Companies (NYSE: RKT) is a Detroit-based fintech platform company consisting of personal finance
and consumer technology brands including Rocket Mortgage, Rocket Homes, Amrock Title and Settlement
Services, Rocket Money and Rocket Loans.With more than 65 million call logs each year, 10 petabytes of data and
a mission to Help Everyone Home, Rocket Companies is well positioned to be the destination for AI-fueled
homeownership. Known for providing exceptional client experiences, J.D. Power has ranked Rocket Mortgage #1 in
client satisfaction for primary mortgage origination and mortgage servicing a total of 22 times – the most of any
mortgage lender.For more information, please visit ourCorporate WebsiteorInvestor Relations Website. View
original       content:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/rocket-companies-announces-third-quarter-2024-
results-302303268.htmlSOURCE Rocket Companies, Inc.


Load-Date: November 12, 2024

                                                                          Page 5 of 5
                  Rocket Companies Announces Third Quarter 2024 Results




