

                                                                                              Page 1 of 2
      Rovicare and CPR Partnership Reduces ER Congestion Through Innovative Care Coordination Platform




 Rovicare and CPR Partnership Reduces ER Congestion Through Innovative
                       Care Coordination Platform
                                                           PR Newswire
                                         September 5, 2024 Thursday 5:24 PM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 606 words
Dateline: TEMPE, Ariz., Sept. 5, 2024

Body


PR NewswireRovicare, Inc. and Crisis Preparation and Recovery, Inc. (CPR) have significantly enhanced crisis
response and helped reduce emergency room crowding through their innovative partnership.TEMPE, Ariz., Sept.

5, 2024 /PRNewswire-PRWeb/ -- Rovicare, Inc. is excited to announce significant progress in its partnership with
Crisis Preparation and Recovery, Inc. (CPR), launched in February 2023. The collaboration has made remarkable
strides in enhancing crisis response and patient care coordination, providing quicker access to care and alleviating
pressure on emergency services. Rovicare's automated care transition process has drastically improved the
efficiency and effectiveness of patient referrals, enhancing patient outcomes and reducing the length of stay at
emergency departments.The collaboration has made remarkable strides in enhancing crisis response and patient
care coordination, providing quicker access to care and alleviating pressure on emergency services.Pattie
O'Connor, the Senior Director of Community Programs and Partnerships at CPR, said that partnering with Rovicare
has created "a more efficient patient care referral process to save time for both receiving, reviewing, and
responding to referrals." Together, CPR and Rovicare have processed over 60,000 referrals for more than 12,000
patients, setting the standard in Maricopa County for crisis response efficiency.PJ Likhmania, CEO at Rovicare,
emphasized the benefits of their software in combatting overcrowded healthcare delivery sites, stating, "We're
thrilled that our AI-based tool has created more space in emergency room departments in Arizona while providing
timely and effective care for behavioral health patients throughout the community."The partnership has empowered
both companies to build a more extensive network of responsive providers who have all benefited from Rovicare's
cutting-edge software. CPR has been able to significantly cut down on referral response times and overall crisis
team efficiency, enhancing patient outcomes and reducing the need for lengthy ER visits. Both Rovicare and CPR
look forward to strengthening the relationship even further with new and creative ways to solve healthcare
challenges.About Crisis Preparation and RecoveryCrisis Preparation and Recovery, Inc. (CPR) is an Arizona state-
licensed, Title XIX certified behavioral health company. Since 1995, it has been distinguished by their reputation for
compassion, clinical expertise, and unparalleled community relationships. Their core mission of "We Exist to Serve"
drives every interaction and they arededicated to helping individuals and organizations thrive. They offer a variety of
services, including outpatient counseling, medication management, crisis interventions in hospitals, transitional
care, SMI evaluations, CISM trainings, and disaster/crisis management consulting.About RovicareRovicare is a
digital platform thatautomates patient transition and care coordination.By engaging all stakeholders throughout a
patient's care journey, Rovicare improves patient experience and outcomes, addressing inefficiencies that lead to
delayed access to care and increased costs. Based in Tempe, Arizona, Rovicare serves healthcare organizations

                                                                                             Page 2 of 2
     Rovicare and CPR Partnership Reduces ER Congestion Through Innovative Care Coordination Platform

across the United States,spanning medical, behavioral, social determinants of health, ancillary services, and
technology-based services.Media ContactPJ Likhmania, Rovicare, Inc., 1 4803606369, ,www.rovicare.com View
original     content:https://www.prweb.com/releases/rovicare-and-cpr-partnership-reduces-er-congestion-through-
innovative-care-coordination-platform-302239701.htmlSOURCE Rovicare, Inc.


Load-Date: September 5, 2024


  
