

                                                                                                       Page 1 of 2
                               HII is Awarded Amphibious Multi-Ship Procurement Contracts




             HII is Awarded Amphibious Multi-Ship Procurement Contracts
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                           September 24, 2024 Tuesday 3:15 PM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: BUSINESS CONTRACTS; PRODUCT / SERVICES ANNOUNCEMENT
Length: 633 words

Body

PASCAGOULA, Miss., Sept. 24, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- HII (NYSE: HII) announced today that its Ingalls
Shipbuilding division was awarded a $9.6 billion multi-ship procurement contract for the construction of three San
Antonio-class (LPD 17) amphibious ships and a contract modification for the next America-class (LHA 6) large-deck
amphibious ship. This combined procurement — the first of its kind for amphibious ships — begins the journey for
the construction of LPDs 33, 34, 35 and LHA 10 for the U.S. Navy.

"We greatly appreciate the stability that this award provides to all Ingalls shipbuilders and our surrounding
communities,” Ingalls President Kari Wilkinson said. “It is an honor to continue our support of the joint Navy and
Marine Corps mission to meet the minimum 31-amphibious-ship requirement.”

Approximately half of all Ingalls shipbuilders build amphibious ships today, with another 650 supplier partners in 39
states across the country that provide components for the construction of amphibious ships.

“We stand ready to reinforce an already strong team of capable shipbuilders with the ideas and skills of new
shipbuilders that want to make a difference in the world,” Wilkinson said. “There is no greater sense of
accomplishment than doing something difficult in support of our nation’s military.”

Photos accompanying this release are available at: https://hii.com/news/hii-is-awarded-amphibious-multi-ship-
procurement-contracts/.

To date, Ingalls has delivered 13 San Antonio-class ships and 15 large-deck amphibious ships to the U.S. Navy.
Currently, the LHA production line includes the construction of Bougainville (LHA 8) and Fallujah (LHA 9). In
addition, Ingalls has two Flight II LPDs under construction including Harrisburg (LPD 30) and Pittsburgh (LPD 31).
In March 2023, Ingalls was awarded a modification to the contract for the procurement of the detail design and
construction of Philadelphia (LPD 32), the 16th ship in the San Antonio class.

                                                                                                      Page 2 of 2
                             HII is Awarded Amphibious Multi-Ship Procurement Contracts

HII builds LPD 17 San Antonio and LHA America classes of amphibious warships. Designed and built for
survivability and flexibility, U.S. Navy amphibious warships are unique combat warships that make possible
complex joint U.S. military operations to respond swiftly to crisis anywhere in the world, from deterrence and major
combat operations to humanitarian assistance and disaster relief.

About HII

HII is a global, all-domain defense provider. HII’s mission is to deliver the world’s most powerful ships and all-
domain solutions in service of the nation, creating the advantage for our customers to protect peace and freedom
around the world.

As the nation’s largest military shipbuilder, and with a more than 135-year history of advancing U.S. national
security, HII delivers critical capabilities extending from ships to unmanned systems, cyber, ISR, AI/ML and
synthetic training. Headquartered in Virginia, HII’s workforce is 44,000 strong. For more information, visit:
    •      HII on the web: hii.com
    •      HII on Facebook: facebook.com/TeamHII
    •      HII on X: x.com/WeAreHII
    •      HII on Instagram: instagram.com/WeAreHII

Contact:

Kimberly K. Aguillard228-355-5663Kimberly.K.Aguillard@hii-co.com

A         photo        accompanying        this      announcement        is        available                        at
https://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/927a1241-a160-489a-a7c7-f939aebf0198

Amphib Multi-Ship Purchase

Aerial view of HII’s Ingalls Shipbuilding division taken on Aug. 22, 2024 as USS Richard M. McCool, Jr. (LPD 29)
departed from Ingalls to its commissioning site in Pensacola, Florida, while Bougainville (LHA 8) is shown under
construction in the background. Ingalls was awarded a $9.6B multi-ship procurement contract for the construction of
three San Antonio-class (LPD 17) amphibious ships and a contract modification for the next America-class (LHA 6)
large-deck amphibious ship.


Load-Date: September 24, 2024


  
