

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 4
     VMware Cloud Foundation Delivers a Private Cloud Platform to Accelerate Customers’ AI, Sovereignty and
                     Security Outcomes Broadcom Unveils New and Expanded VMwar....




 VMware Cloud Foundation Delivers a Private Cloud Platform to Accelerate
Customers’ AI, Sovereignty and Security Outcomes; Broadcom Unveils New
 and Expanded VMware Cloud Foundation Advanced Services, Ecosystem
         Partnerships and Private Cloud Modernization Program
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                                   November 5, 2024 Tuesday



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: PRODUCT / SERVICES ANNOUNCEMENT
Length: 2073 words

Body

BARCELONA, Spain, Nov. 05, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Adoption of artificial intelligence, national digital
sovereignty, and maintaining cyber resilience in times of uncertainty are paramount to today’s digital-first
organization. Broadcom Inc. (NASDAQ: AVGO) is helping customers address these critical business outcomes
through a private cloud platform, VMware Cloud Foundation, that is simple to deploy, easy to consume, and lowers
cost and risk. At VMware Explore 2024 Barcelona this week, the company is furthering this mission by announcing
an expanded set of VMware Cloud Foundation (VCF) Advanced Services innovations, ecosystem partnerships, and
modernization programs that can accelerate generative AI application development, cybersecurity initiatives, and
sovereign cloud adoption.

“Broadcom is enabling the private cloud everywhere with VMware Cloud Foundation,” said Krish Prasad, senior
vice president and general manager, VCF Division at Broadcom. “Through a private cloud platform and portfolio of
Advanced Services that are ubiquitous, flexible and secure, we are unlocking the promise of AI in the enterprise,
delivering new levels of organizational resilience, and supporting the privacy and digital sovereignty demands of
customers around the world.”

VMware Cloud Foundation is the industry’s first private cloud platform to deliver public cloud scale and agility with
private cloud security, resilience and performance, and low overall total cost of ownership. VCF supports
customers’ digital innovation with faster infrastructure modernization, a unified cloud experience, and better cyber
resiliency and platform security. The VCF private cloud platform can be deployed consistently in on-premises data
centers, in hyperscale and partner clouds, and at the edge, and customers benefit from license portability which
enables them to purchase subscriptions of the new VCF software and have complete mobility across environments.

                                                                                                 Page 2 of 4
    VMware Cloud Foundation Delivers a Private Cloud Platform to Accelerate Customers’ AI, Sovereignty and
                    Security Outcomes Broadcom Unveils New and Expanded VMwar....

VMware Cloud Foundation Advanced Services is a robust catalog of ready-to-deploy solutions that enables
customers to accelerate innovation in their private cloud environments. VMware Cloud Foundation 5.2 and 5.2.1
have been released this year, and Broadcom has announced intent to deliver VMware Cloud Foundation 9.

“IPZS, the Italian Mint and Printing Institute, has been entrusted with the responsibility of deploying the Italian
version of the European Digital Identity (EUDI) Wallet initiative, making Italy the first country to successfully
implement this project,” said Paolo Bazzica, CIO of IPZS – Istituto Poligrafico e Zecca dello Stato Italiano. “As part
of a transformational program to modernize its infrastructure, IPZS created a new modern Digital Application
Platform (DAP) using VMware Cloud Foundation. This has enabled faster and more secure software development,
deployment, and maintenance, ensuring the reliability and scalability of Italy’s EUDI Wallet.”

“For running enterprise-grade applications across both virtual machines and containerized solutions, VCF stands as
the industry's most advanced and comprehensive private cloud platform,” said Onno van den Berg, Mission Critical
Engineer at Schuberg Philis. “VCF offers an efficient, out-of-the-box experience, providing a flexible, scalable, and
resilient solution. With many of our customers already utilizing VMware based platforms for their workloads,
migrations are streamlined and straightforward.”

Expanded Data Services Capabilities for VMware Cloud Foundation Broadcom is announcing a new Advanced
Service - VMware Tanzu Data Services for VMware Cloud Foundation - to streamline deployment, management
and consumption of critical data services and enable faster application delivery, better data security and
governance, and operational efficiency. Robust data services (databases, messaging, caching) are foundational for
the success of AI applications, enabling them to function accurately and efficiently in dynamic environments. Data
services offer a modern way to store, manage, and process data, addressing the challenges developers,
infrastructure teams, and operators face in deploying microservices, serverless, and other modern application
architectures at scale. IT organizations have struggled to operationalize the growing number of data services and
deliver them effectively with SLAs. VMware Tanzu Data Services will natively integrate with VCF to deliver fleet-
level automated lifecycle management including deployment, backups, clustering, security patching and updates of
leading open source data services, starting with PostgreSQL, MySQL, RabbitMQ and Valkey. Enterprise support for
these open source solutions will be included. Read this blog to learn more.

End-to-end Cyber Resilience, Security and Recovery with VMware Cloud FoundationBroadcom is announcing
VMware Live Recovery will support Google Cloud VMware Engine (GCVE) as a target Isolated Recovery
Environment (IRE) for VCF workloads for both cyber and disaster recovery. This builds on VMware Live
Recovery’s existing protection of GCVE sites as a source, and enables a consistent, secure and simplified
experience for those looking to protect VMware workloads running on-premises or in the cloud to GCVE.

“Building on Google Cloud’s support for VMware Cloud Foundation license portability, our expanded services now
offer yet another important choice for customers to address their modern cyber- and disaster-recovery needs,” said
Mark Lohmeyer, VP & GM of Compute and AI Infrastructure, Google Cloud. “Together, Broadcom and Google
Cloud will continue to design, develop, and deliver cutting-edge services that enable enterprises to run VMware
workloads securely and cost-effectively on Google Cloud.”

Broadcom also announces that the VMware vDefend Advanced Service for VCF now offers GenAI-based intelligent
assistance to help IT security teams proactively triage sophisticated threat campaigns and recommend remediation
options. The enhanced threat defense solution with Intelligent Assist co-pilot can help significantly lower false
positives and the number of alerts, provide security teams greater situational awareness across their environment,
and speed up remediation. Read more in this blog here.

Expanding an Ecosystem of Generative AI Services with VMware Private AIBroadcom’s Private AI strategy is
centered around privacy, control, simplicity, automation, resiliency, and choice of AI hardware, models, software
and services. That allows organizations to invest in a secure AI platform that can quickly onboard new services as
business or industry needs change. Today, Broadcom is announcing support for Microsoft’s Azure AI Video
Indexer, on VMware Private AI running on VMware Cloud Foundation and Azure VMware Solution. Azure AI Video
Indexer is an Azure Arc extension enabled service that runs video and audio analysis, and generative AI on data

                                                                                                 Page 3 of 4
    VMware Cloud Foundation Delivers a Private Cloud Platform to Accelerate Customers’ AI, Sovereignty and
                    Security Outcomes Broadcom Unveils New and Expanded VMwar....

center or edge devices. This announcement marks another step by Broadcom to accelerate customers’ rapid
innovation and time-to-value for AI projects on the VCF private cloud platform, and enables the Azure AI Video
Indexer to run anywhere they do business. Read this blog for more details.

Free VCF Licenses through VMUG Advantage for VCF Certified ProfessionalsVMUG is an independent, global,
customer-led organization, created to maximize members’ use of VMware and partner solutions through knowledge
sharing, training, collaboration, and events. In a new exclusive benefit to VMware User Group (VMUG) members,
Broadcom will provide VMUG Advantage subscribers a 50% discount on VMware Certified Professional (VCP) and
VMware Certified Advanced Professional (VCAP) certification exams. Upon successful completion of a VMware
Cloud Foundation certification exam (VCP or VCAP), VMUG Advantage members will have access to a free
personal use VMware Cloud Foundation license for up to three years.

Continued Expansion of Private Cloud Modernization ProgramBy providing expert guidance, tailored training, and
innovative resources, Broadcom ensures that businesses can confidently transition to a private cloud, regardless of
where they are in their private cloud journey. Today, Broadcom is announcing continued investments in the Private
Cloud Modernization Program, designed to help customers navigate their private cloud transformation journey with
VMware Cloud Foundation.

New VMware Cloud Foundation Architect certification: Broadcom is announcing the new VMware Certified
Professional - VCF Architect certification. The VMware Cloud Foundation Architect certification is specifically
designed for individuals who can conceptualize and design VCF solutions that fulfill both business and technical
requirements. This certification not only validates an architect's skills in designing systems with essential
characteristics such as availability, manageability, performance, recoverability, and security (AMPRS), but it also
emphasizes the importance of capacity planning, disaster recovery, and scalability.

Private Cloud Maturity and Optimization Tool for Partners: Broadcom is making the Private Cloud Maturity and
Optimization tool available to partners. This tool empowers partners to help customers realize the technical and
financial value of the private cloud, and chart a path forward to achieving their key goals and objectives. Partners
get access to the Private Cloud Framework, an assessment resulting in a Private Cloud Maturity Index Score for
their customers and prescriptive guidance from Broadcom. By leveraging the model, partners can accelerate
customers outcomes, deliver strategic account plans faster, and develop and deliver new services.

VCSP Partners Support National Digital SovereigntyBroadcom is announcing that 50 VMware Cloud Service
Providers (VCSPs) offer sovereign cloud services based on VCF, including 30 across EMEA. Sovereign VCSP
partners meet the requirements for local operations by a legal entity that owns, operates and manages the
sovereign cloud offering with complete jurisdictional control, local data residency, and portability without lock-in (full
reversibility).

VMware Cloud Foundation includes specific capabilities that uniquely address sovereign cloud requirements,
including privacy-enhancing computation support with Intel and AMD chipsets (Confidential Computing); integrated
data-at-rest protection with vSAN Encryption; Secure Boot for ESXi Hosts and vSphere virtual machine encryption;
comprehensive data services; and compliance monitoring, alerting and reporting with VCF Operations. VCSP
sovereign clouds also support Bring Your Own Keys (BYOK), providing customers with even more confidence that
no one else, not even the CSP, can view or access their information without permission.

“The data revolution is rapidly changing the way we work and live, placing the need for digital sovereignty at the
forefront of our customers’ business strategies. This includes data, operational and technical sovereignty,” said Eric
Chambriard, vice president of strategic alliances and sales at OVHcloud. “With VMware Cloud Foundation, we are
able to leverage a complete cloud infrastructure and management platform so that we can offer a dedicated
sovereign cloud service. This enables our customers to benefit from different certifications on a per country/sector
basis, to keep control of their data and maintain continuity of operations.”

For the latest news and more from VMware Explore, the industry’s essential cloud event, visit the VMware Explore
2024 Barcelona media kit.

                                                                                                 Page 4 of 4
    VMware Cloud Foundation Delivers a Private Cloud Platform to Accelerate Customers’ AI, Sovereignty and
                    Security Outcomes Broadcom Unveils New and Expanded VMwar....

Additional Resources
    •   For more details read these blogs
    •   Learn more about VMware Cloud Foundation
    •   Follow VMware Cloud Foundation social channels on LinkedIn, X, formerly known as Twitter and YouTube

About BroadcomBroadcom Inc. (NASDAQ: AVGO) is a global technology leader that designs, develops, and
supplies a broad range of semiconductor, enterprise software and security solutions. Broadcom's category-leading
product portfolio serves critical markets including cloud, data center, networking, broadband, wireless, storage,
industrial, and enterprise software. Our solutions include service provider and enterprise networking and storage,
mobile device and broadband connectivity, mainframe, cybersecurity, and private and hybrid cloud infrastructure.
Broadcom is a Delaware corporation headquartered in Palo Alto, CA. For more information, go to
www.broadcom.com.

Roger T. FortierBroadcom, Inc.roger.fortier@broadcom.com +1.408.348.1569


Load-Date: November 5, 2024


  
