

                                                                                              Page 1 of 3
   UNECE Regional Report Highlights the Need for More Progress in Women's Economic Rights and Elimination
                                         of Gender-Based Violence




 UNECE Regional Report Highlights the Need for More Progress in Women's
       Economic Rights and Elimination of Gender-Based Violence
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                            October 18, 2024 Friday 7:02 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 1365 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: GENEVA, Switzerland

Body


(TNSres) -- The United Nations Economic Commission for Europe issued the following news release:

In the past five years, the confluence of different crises has negatively affected the implementation of the Beijing
Declaration and the Platform for Action on gender equality throughout the UNECE region. The COVID-19
pandemic, escalating climate emergency, eruptions of armed conflict and geopolitical tensions have
disproportionately affected women and girls, exacerbating existing inequalities. At the same time, the rise in
authoritarianism and anti-rights movements is threatening the progress made and endangering women's rights
activists.

According      to     the     UNECE        regional     synthesis    report   (https://unece.org/sites/default/files/2024-
09/ECE_AC.28_2024_3e.pdf), although gender equality is generally improving in the UNECE region, most SDG
related targets are likely to fall short by 2030 at the current pace. Progress can be measured for less than half of the
targets, one of them being the share of women participating in political and economic life.

Yet, progress remains slow and insufficient in other priority areas, notably elimination of gender-based violence,
and strengthening of women's economic rights.

"We urgently need to invest in comprehensive economic and social policies aimed at driving women's full
participation, supported by accountable institutions and mechanisms, including gender budgeting," noted UNECE
Executive Secretary Tatiana Molcean. "Advancing gender equality must remain a bold and unwavering priority,
especially given ongoing and emerging challenges. This requires enforcing and improving existing gender equality
frameworks, innovative policymaking and appropriate resource allocation that is guided by the fundamental
recognition that without gender equality we cannot achieve the SDGs."

                                                                                             Page 2 of 3
  UNECE Regional Report Highlights the Need for More Progress in Women's Economic Rights and Elimination
                                        of Gender-Based Violence

These issues will be in the focus of discussions at the Beijing+30 Regional Review Meeting on 21-22 October 2024
in Geneva, Switzerland.

Women's participation in political and economic life

The share of women participating in political and economic life is increasing in nearly every country in the region.
The proportion of elected seats held by women in parliaments and local governments has seen significant growth
and, if sustained, could exceed one-third by 2030, though still short of parity.

Today, women make up an average of 31.6% of parliamentarians in single or lower houses of 56 UNECE countries,
in comparison to 27.8% at the last review in 2019 and 11% in 1995. Progress was also observed in terms of women
rising to ministerial posts. As of 1 January 2024, an average of 28.8% of women serve as Cabinet ministers in the
56 UNECE countries.

Nevertheless, the "glass ceiling" in political spheres is still very present in many countries, with women being
underrepresented in the highest echelons of political power and minimal progress observed since the previous
regional Beijing review in 2019. For example, in total, women currently serve as Heads of States and/or
Government in 14 UNECE countries, as in 2019.

Economic empowerment of women

Despite the attention dedicated to women's economic rights and poverty reduction, their financial independence
remains elusive. Women continue to be overrepresented in insecure, precarious, or informal employment, which is
characterized by low remuneration, poor working conditions, and limited access to social protection. This situation
was intensified during the COVID-19 pandemic, when the unequal gendered division of unpaid and care labour in
private households deepened.

For example, in the European Union, an estimated 21% of women in couples aged 18-64 in 2019 lived with a
partner who is the single earner, compared to 6% of men in this position.

The gender pay gap ranges from less than 10% in some Western Balkans countries to over 60% in some countries
of Central Asia and the South Caucasus. It translates into a wider gender pension gap, exceeding 40% on average
in the region.

Progress in women's participation in the corporate sector is very modest. The proportion of women in managerial
positions in the corporate sector stands at 34.7% as of 2022 in 36 reporting countries, having only slightly risen
from 33.2% in 2018 for 37 reporting countries.

Eliminating gender-based violence

Eliminating gender-based violence has been one of the most common areas of action for countries over the past
five years, and a number of countries have introduced stronger legislative and policy standards. For example,
preventing and responding to technology-facilitated gender-based violence has become a relevant area of legal and
policy concern, while attention to sexual harassment at workplaces and in public and educational spaces has also
increased.

Yet, elimination gender-based violence remains a challenge. During the COVID-19 pandemic lockdowns, many
women and children faced domestic violence during. Moreover, military conflicts, notably the war against Ukraine,
have led to a rise of conflict-related sexual violence.

According to the most recent data for countries implementing the EU survey on gender-based violence, the
proportion of women aged 18-74 who have experienced gender-based violence by any perpetrator since the age of
15, ranges from 10.3% to 57.1%.

                                                                                             Page 3 of 3
  UNECE Regional Report Highlights the Need for More Progress in Women's Economic Rights and Elimination
                                        of Gender-Based Violence

In the Western Balkans, Turkiye, Eastern Europe and Central Asia, more than half of women who use digital
technologies and are present online had experience of some form of technology-facilitated violence. The highest
prevalence was found in Ukraine (76.8%) and the lowest in Tajikistan (30.7%).

The regional report calls for continued promotion of integrated approaches to ensure that all women and girls live
free from all forms of violence by strengthening the development, monitoring and reporting of global norms and
standards on violence against women.

Financing for gender equality

According to UN Women, an additional $360 billion annually is needed to achieve gender equality and women's
empowerment globally across key global goals, including ending poverty and hunger. However, confronted with
multiple crises, countries face difficult policy choices and limited fiscal space. They struggle to budget, allocate and
utilize funds effectively to uphold national gender equality laws and policies.

Data collected by UN Women, the OECD and UNDP from 105 countries show that only a quarter of countries have
comprehensive systems to monitor expenditures on gender equality and women's empowerment.

While 92% of countries have established gender equality policies and programmes, only 53% have allocated
adequate resources. Additionally, only 38% of countries prepare consolidated gender statements as part of budget
documentation, and a mere 26% tag budgetary allocations to track spending against gender objectives.

These data highlight a discrepancy between policy development and the practical implementation and funding of
gender-responsive activities at the global level. They also point to a need to substantially restructure funding and
integrate a strategic, gender-responsive approach to financing into broader macroeconomic policies.

Emerging issues and future priorities

The regional report highlights several emerging issues and future priorities. These include the urgent need for
greater emphasis on women's economic empowerment and independence, as well as tackling gendered
stereotypes that hinder women's and girls' progress.

The prevalence of digitalization, including the potential of artificial intelligence, require more attention being paid
to potentially negative gender impacts, while the impacts of climate change and environmental degradation, which
are becoming more visible in the UNECE region, necessitate the integration of a gender perspective to environment
protection, climate change and disaster risk management.

Finally, mainstreaming a gender equality perspective and ensuring women's active participation in conflict
prevention and resolution is necessary to simultaneously ensure national and regional peace and stability.

***

Original text here: https://unece.org/gender/press/unece-regional-report-highlights-need-more-progress-womens-
economic-rights-and

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8882349 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: October 18, 2024


  
