

                                                                                                     Page 1 of 3
   TeraWulf Monetizes Equity Interests in Nautilus Joint Venture to Fuel Expansion of HPC/AI and Bitcoin Mining
                                         at Flagship Lake Mariner Facility




     TeraWulf Monetizes Equity Interests in Nautilus Joint Venture to Fuel
   Expansion of HPC/AI and Bitcoin Mining at Flagship Lake Mariner Facility
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                             October 3, 2024 Thursday 1:00 PM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: MANAGEMENT STATEMENTS
Length: 1648 words

Body


Total Consideration of Approximately $92 Million, Resulting In a 3.4x Return on Investment1

2 MW AI/HPC Proof-of-Concept Project Nearing Completion; Targeting operations for 20 MW CB-1 in Q1 2025 and
50 MW CB-2 in Q2 2025

Maintains Q1 2025 Target ~13 EH/s Operating Capacity While Upgrading Fleet Efficiency to 18.2 J/TH and
Optimizing Operating Expenses

Schedules Conference Call for Third Quarter 2024 Financial Results

EASTON, Md., Oct. 03, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- TeraWulf Inc. (Nasdaq: WULF) (“TeraWulf” or the
“Company”), a leading owner and operator of vertically integrated, next-generation digital infrastructure powered by
predominantly zero-carbon energy, today announced it has completed the sale of its 25% equity interest in the
Nautilus Cryptomine joint venture ("Nautilus") to its partner, a subsidiary of Talen Energy Corporation (“Talen”), in a
transaction valued at approximately $92 million that will help fuel expansion of HPC/AI and bitcoin mining at the
Company’s wholly-owned Lake Mariner facility and position TeraWulf for substantial value creation.

This transaction allows TeraWulf to achieve a 3.4x return on its investment in Nautilus1. The $92 million
consideration consists of $85 million in cash and approximately 30,000 Talen-contributed miners and related
equipment valued at around $7 million. TeraWulf intends to reinvest this capital into the construction of the 20 MW
CB-1 facility at Lake Mariner, which is designed for hosting HPC/AI data centers.

                                                                                                    Page 2 of 3
  TeraWulf Monetizes Equity Interests in Nautilus Joint Venture to Fuel Expansion of HPC/AI and Bitcoin Mining
                                        at Flagship Lake Mariner Facility

In addition to the CB-1 facility, TeraWulf aims to complete the construction of the mining building 5, “MB-5”, and
maintains its operational target of over 13 EH/s by Q1 2025. The Company also plans to enhance the efficiency of
its mining fleet to achieve 18.2 J/TH.

This transaction underscores TeraWulf’s dedication to operational efficiency, cost management, and long-term
shareholder value, while also demonstrating proactive risk management. By monetizing its interest ahead of the
expiration of the $0.02/kWh power contract and ground lease in June 2027, TeraWulf strategically positions itself to
redeploy resources to its Lake Mariner facility in New York, where it enjoys superior cost efficiency and lower
expected future power prices. Furthermore, the sale of TeraWulf's minority interest in Nautilus will streamline its
consolidated financial statements, enhancing transparency and comparability for shareholders.

TeraWulf recently completed a 2 MW AI/HPC proof-of-concept project, designed to support both current and next-
generation GPU technology. Additionally, the Company is constructing a 20 MW colocation building, CB-1, at Lake
Mariner, engineered to handle a critical IT load of 16 MW with advanced liquid cooling and Tier 3 redundancy
features. Re-investing the proceeds from this transaction keeps CB-1 on track to be operational in Q1 2025. The
next building, CB-2, has a planned gross capacity of 50 MW and is targeted for completion in Q2 2025.

Management Commentary

“This transaction further aligns TeraWulf’s focus and investments with where we have the most operational
efficiency, the greatest growth potential, and the best opportunity to drive incremental value for shareholders,” said
Paul Prager, Chief Executive Officer of TeraWulf. “Monetizing our interest in Nautilus ahead of the 2027 expiration
of the highly advantageous 2¢/kWh power contract allows us to capture a significant premium for our investment,
provide significant capital to invest into our HPC/AI infrastructure and capitalize on our favorably structured miner
purchase agreement to upgrade our mining fleet at a discount to the current market price.”

Prager added, “Together, these actions are expected to bring CB-1 online in Q1 2025, significantly enhance our
mining fleet’s efficiency, reduce our cost-to-mine, and improve overall profitability, all while maintaining our
commitment to utilizing predominantly zero-carbon energy. We extend our thanks to Talen Energy for their
collaboration, which has played a vital role in reaching this important milestone. We look forward to furthering our
shared commitment to sustainable energy and digital infrastructure innovation.”

“Looking ahead, we are focused on ensuring TeraWulf is best positioned to benefit from the growing demand for
HPC/AI by meeting the needs of high-quality customers who are looking for power availability and infrastructure
that can meet their substantial requirements over the long term,” Prager concluded.

Schedules Third Quarter 2024 Earnings Call

The Company will hold its earnings conference call and webcast for the third quarter ended September 30, 2024 on
Tuesday, November 12 at 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time. A press release detailing these results will be issued prior to the
call on the same day. Additional details, including dial-in information, will be provided as the event approaches.

About TeraWulf

TeraWulf develops, owns, and operates environmentally sustainable, next-generation data center infrastructure in
the United States, specifically designed for Bitcoin mining and high-performance computing. Led by a team of
seasoned energy entrepreneurs, the Company owns and operates the Lake Mariner facility situated on the
expansive site of a now retired coal plant in Western New York. Currently, TeraWulf generates revenue primarily
through Bitcoin mining, leveraging predominantly zero-carbon energy sources, including nuclear and hydroelectric
power. Committed to environmental, social, and governance (ESG) principles that align with its business objectives,
TeraWulf aims to deliver industry-leading economics in mining and data center operations at an industrial scale.

Forward-Looking Statements

                                                                                                    Page 3 of 3
  TeraWulf Monetizes Equity Interests in Nautilus Joint Venture to Fuel Expansion of HPC/AI and Bitcoin Mining
                                        at Flagship Lake Mariner Facility

This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the “safe harbor” provisions of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. Such forward-looking statements include statements
concerning anticipated future events and expectations that are not historical facts. All statements, other than
statements of historical fact, are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. In addition, forward-
looking statements are typically identified by words such as “plan,” “believe,” “goal,” “target,” “aim,” “expect,”
“anticipate,” “intend,” “outlook,” “estimate,” “forecast,” “project,” “continue,” “could,” “may,” “might,” “possible,”
“potential,” “predict,” “should,” “would” and other similar words and expressions, although the absence of these
words or expressions does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking. Forward-looking statements are based
on the current expectations and beliefs of TeraWulf’s management and are inherently subject to a number of
factors, risks, uncertainties and assumptions and their potential effects. There can be no assurance that future
developments will be those that have been anticipated. Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or
implied by forward-looking statements based on a number of factors, risks, uncertainties and assumptions,
including, among others: (1) conditions in the cryptocurrency mining industry, including fluctuation in the market
pricing of bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies, and the economics of cryptocurrency mining, including as to variables
or factors affecting the cost, efficiency and profitability of cryptocurrency mining; (2) competition among the various
providers of cryptocurrency mining services; (3) changes in applicable laws, regulations and/or permits affecting
TeraWulf’s operations or the industries in which it operates, including regulation regarding power generation,
cryptocurrency usage and/or cryptocurrency mining, and/or regulation regarding safety, health, environmental and
other matters, which could require significant expenditures; (4) the ability to implement certain business objectives
and to timely and cost-effectively execute integrated projects; (5) failure to obtain adequate financing on a timely
basis and/or on acceptable terms with regard to growth strategies or operations; (6) loss of public confidence in
bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies and the potential for cryptocurrency market manipulation; (7) adverse geopolitical
or economic conditions, including a high inflationary environment; (8) the potential of cybercrime, money-
laundering, malware infections and phishing and/or loss and interference as a result of equipment malfunction or
break-down, physical disaster, data security breach, computer malfunction or sabotage (and the costs associated
with any of the foregoing); (9) the availability, delivery schedule and cost of equipment necessary to maintain and
grow the business and operations of TeraWulf, including mining equipment and infrastructure equipment meeting
the technical or other specifications required to achieve its growth strategy; (10) employment workforce factors,
including the loss of key employees; (11) litigation relating to TeraWulf and/or its business; and (12) other risks and
uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission
(“SEC”). Potential investors, stockholders and other readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these
forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they were made. TeraWulf does not assume
any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement after it was made, whether as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or regulation. Investors are referred to the full
discussion of risks and uncertainties associated with forward-looking statements and the discussion of risk factors
contained in the Company’s filings with the SEC, which are available at www.sec.gov.

Company Contact:Jason AssadDirector of Corporate Communications assad@terawulf.com (678) 570-6791

1 Excludes the un-depreciated value of WULF’s Nautilus miners.


Load-Date: October 3, 2024


  
