

                                                                               Page 1 of 4
        OXFORD UNIVERSITY ACADEMICS CALL FOR AMBITIOUS ACTIONS AT UN CLIMATE CHANGE
                                    CONFERENCE COP29




OXFORD UNIVERSITY ACADEMICS CALL FOR AMBITIOUS ACTIONS AT UN
             CLIMATE CHANGE CONFERENCE COP29
                                               States News Service
                                           November 11, 2024 Monday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 1807 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: OXFORD, UK

Body


The following information was released by the University of Oxford:

Launching today, the UN Climate Change Conference for 2024 (COP29) in Baku, Azerbaijan, will bring together
around 200 countries to develop renewed plans for addressing climate change. With global progress currently
'falling miles short' of that needed to avoid catastrophic climate change, there is urgent pressure for these
negotiations to result in more ambitious actions. A delegation of University of Oxford researchers will be attending
the conference in person, with many more following the proceedings virtually. Throughout the summit (11-22
November), they will be contributing their expertise and presenting new research findings to inform the discussions.

The Oxford delegation includes representatives from the Department of Biology, School of Geography and the
Environment, Blavatnik School of Government, Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment, Faculty of Law,
and Sa¯d Business School. Their expertise covers a broad range of critical areas including climate finance, carbon
trading, climate justice, and environmental law.

Leading Oxford's COP29 delegation is Thomas Hale, Professor of Global Public Policy at the Blavatnik School of
Government. He studies the challenges raised by globalisation and interdependence, with a particular emphasis on
environmental, economic and health issues, and co-leads theNet Zero Trackerand theNet Zero Regulation and
Policy Hub.

He said: 'I hope COP29 will send countries a clear signal that they need to upgrade their pledges under the Paris
Agreement, due next year, and match top-level targets with concrete rules and regulations that drive
implementation. A trust-building deal on the new finance goal can give countries confidence to reach their maximum
ambition.'

George Carew-Jones, a researcher in climate-compatible growth at the University of Oxford's Smith School of
Enterprise and Environment. His research focusses on private sector climate finance in emerging and developing
markets. At COP29 he will be releasing a new report on overcoming barriers to renewable power investment in

                                                                              Page 2 of 4
       OXFORD UNIVERSITY ACADEMICS CALL FOR AMBITIOUS ACTIONS AT UN CLIMATE CHANGE
                                   CONFERENCE COP29

Zambia, besides working with the UK Youth Climate Coalition at COP29 on strengthening the accountability
framework which governs UNFCCC conferences.

He said: 'COP29 is a big opportunity to target a couple of barriers which have been holding back the UNFCCC
process for a long time: finance and accountability. I'm confident we'll see clarification on how politically realistic
different routes to finance are, but I am not so confident that this will result in the quick mobilisation of bulk
financing. Growing accountability will be key to pushing for more finance as we go forward, and I think we'll see
some novel ideas from the most ambitious states (e.g. the small islands groups) on how that should look.'

Sam Fankhauser, Professor of Climate Economics and Policy at the Oxford Smith School and the School of
Geography and the Environment. He is also Research Director of Oxford Net Zero and an Official Fellow of Reuben
College, where he leads the environmental change theme. Returning to COP for the first time in over a decade,
Sam will be showcasing Smith School research on renewable energy entrepreneurship in Africa and South Asia.

He said: 'This is a bridging summit ahead of the much bigger COP30 in Brazil next year. But it is important that we
make progress on issues such as a new climate finance goal, the rules on global carbon trading, and the next round
of national commitments to keep global warming well below 2C. I hope our research can give parties the confidence
to sign up to meaningful new commitments and maintain the integrity of the Paris process.'

Kath Ford, Deputy Director for Young Lives, a project based in Oxford's Department of International Development
which is using population-level evidence to inform policies to improve the lives of young people around the world.

She said: 'I am delighted to be representing Young Lives at COP29, showcasing our ground-breaking evidence on
the life-course and intergenerational impacts of climate change and environmental shocks on children's nutritional
health, physical growth, skills development, and learning. I will be advocating for better social protection for
disadvantaged households in disaster-prone regions, particularly for vulnerable girls and women, and reaching out
to new partners to support our innovative newResearch Hub on Climate Shocks and Environmental Shocks
launched last month.'

Dr Injy Johnstone, Research Associate in net zero-aligned offsetting within the Oxford Sustainable Finance Group,
Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment. During COP29, she will be working on improving the net zero
alignment of carbon markets. This includes active engagement in the Article 6 negotiations (which would enable
countries to trade carbon credits), as well as mapping gaps and opportunities to scale durable carbon removal.

She said: 'My hope at COP29 is that negotiators will see environmental integrity as central to rather than a barrier to
Article 6 operationalisation and that, ultimately, it sets a new global baseline from which to go further and faster on
climate mitigation.'

Dr Ievgeniia Kopytsia is an environmental and climate law scholar and a research fellow at the Faculty of Law. Her
research focuses on the intersection of climate action, the net zero transition, and security (particularly how to
implement climate commitments in vulnerable, conflict-affected regions). She co-leads the RE: BUILDING
UKRAINE FOR ALL project, and at COP29 she will coordinate panel discussions at the Ukraine pavilion, bringing
together international stakeholders to address the unique challenges of climate action and recovery efforts in
conflict zones.

She said: 'I hope to see COP29 establish concrete mechanisms to support climate action in fragile and conflict-
affected settings, moving beyond declarations to implementable solutions. With COP29 dedicating 15 November to
Climate, Peace, and Security discussions, the conference presents a unique opportunity to ensure that countries
like Ukraineactively pursuing climate goals amid ongoing conflictreceive adequate technical assistance and
dedicated financial support. And as we approach the next round of NDCs, it is crucial for countries to integrate
security considerations into comprehensive climate action plans, prioritize socially just transition policies, and
account for military emissions in their national commitments. In these politically turbulent times, the path forward
must be one that unites climate resilience with a commitment to peace and equity.'

                                                                              Page 3 of 4
       OXFORD UNIVERSITY ACADEMICS CALL FOR AMBITIOUS ACTIONS AT UN CLIMATE CHANGE
                                   CONFERENCE COP29

Dr Amani Maalouf is a Senior Research Associate at Oxford Sustainable Finance Group. She works on developing
asset-level datasets and impact assessment methodologies for high-impact industries. She leads the group's
research on the waste management sector, focusing on emission accounting methodologies, the carbon market,
and the climate and environmental analyses.

She said: 'At COP29, I will share insights on the role of effective waste management in reducing greenhouse gas
emissions, current limitations in emissions accounting, and opportunities for carbon market mechanisms to drive
investment in effective waste management. At COP29, I hope to foster stronger global commitments towards
sustainable waste and resource management and facilitate partnerships that advance transparent, accountable
frameworks for reporting and emissions reduction.'

Dr Ana Nacvalovaite, a research fellow in Kellogg College's Centre for Mutual and Co-owned Business. She
researches how sovereign wealth funds can channel investments into alternative businesses, such as cooperative
models, employee-owned businesses, and social enterprises that align with the UN Sustainable Development
Goals.

She said: 'My hopes for COP29 are firmly anchored in a decisive commitment to climate finance and the promotion
of peace. It is imperative that world leaders establish an ambitious New Collective Quantified Goal (NCQG) that
significantly increases public funding for adaptation, mitigation, and loss and damage, particularly for developing
nations. We must also emphasise the critical link between climate action and peace, recognising that environmental
degradation can exacerbate conflicts and instability.'

Dr Brian O'Callaghan is an expert on the economic characteristics of public and private green investment. He has
advised over 20 governments on investment policy that supports both environmental and economic objectives. He
is also Senior Advisor to the UN Economic Commission for Africa and Vice President at Acadia Infrastructure
Capital, a major investor in US middle-market renewables. At COP29, Dr O'Callaghan is supporting negotiations on
the New Collective Quantified Goal for climate finance. His new paper, A COP29 Climate Finance Target that
Makes Economic Sense, uses a new approach in AI economics to identify a median appropriate target of $1.7
trillion.

He said: 'I'm advocating for a climate finance solution that makes economic senseone that accounts for needs as
well as technical factors like financial discounting. Developing countries need a fighting chance to tackle climate
change alongside development; their success is the world's success. In most cases, this requires a target well over
$1 trillion per year, clawback mechanisms for missed payments, and a public finance backstop on private finance
commitments.'

Dr Thom Wetzer, is Associate Professor of Law and Finance and Director of theOxford Sustainable Law
Programme.He studies how legal and financial mechanisms address, or fail to address, governance challenges
associated with aligning private initiative and the public good, with a particular emphasis on climate change and
financial stability. He co-leads the OxfordNet Zero Regulation and Policy Hub.

He said: 'At COP29, I hope we can continue to turn a groundswell of climate action into ground rules that embed
net zero into the global economy. Recent political developments may create headwinds for climate action, but an
increasingly global network of climate rules and regulations creates strong incentives for decarbonisation as firms
assess global obligations and market trends. This also underpins the mobilisation of climate finance at a speed and
scale commensurate with the challenge we now face.'

The delegation also includes:

Dr Mary Johnstone-Louis, a Senior Fellow in Management Practice, Said Business School.

Professor Juliane Reinecke, Professor of Management Studies, Said Business School.

                                                                             Page 4 of 4
      OXFORD UNIVERSITY ACADEMICS CALL FOR AMBITIOUS ACTIONS AT UN CLIMATE CHANGE
                                  CONFERENCE COP29

Dr Hassan Aftab Sheikh is a Research Fellow in Nature Finance at the Smith School of Enterprise and the
Environment. His research focuses on nature finance and investment, helping financial institutions decarbonise
scope three emissions, and focusing on financing nature recovery.


Load-Date: November 12, 2024


  
