

                                                                                                   Page 1 of 3
    Keepit at Gartner 2024: Bridging Data Governance and Disaster Recovery Keepit unlocks the tools for cyber
                            resilience at Gartner conferences across the US and Eu....




 Keepit at Gartner 2024: Bridging Data Governance and Disaster Recovery;
 Keepit unlocks the tools for cyber resilience at Gartner conferences across
                    the US and Europe in coming weeks
                                                    Business Wire
                                      October 21, 2024 Monday 10:05 AM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 637 words
Dateline: COPENHAGEN, Denmark

Body


Keepit , a global provider of a comprehensive cloud backup and recovery platform, today announced its presence at
the 2024 Gartner IT Symposium/Xpo(TM) and Gartner IOCS conferences in the Americas and Europe this fall.

At the Gartner conferences, the Keepit team will share the latest insights on how to build resilience through robust
data governance frameworks. "Future-proofing your business and building resilience starts with careful and
thorough investigation into your company's data: what data do you have, where is it stored and who has access to
it? These fundamentals will help companies plan their disaster recovery efforts and strengthen their stance against
any outside disruptors," says Kim Larsen, CISO at Keepit.

Keepit will be attending and speaking at four Gartner events this fall to highlight the importance of data governance
frameworks and provide actionable insights into building organizational resilience. Key takeaways from these
speaking sessions will include effective data governance models and approaches, disaster recovery planning,
techniques for data prioritization and classification, structuring recovery plans and conducting incident investigation.

The 2024 Gartner conferences provide opportunities for information technology (IT) and cybersecurity executives to
explore technology, insights, and trends shaping the future of IT and business. Topics covered will include
cybersecurity, emerging technologies, digital and business transformation and the ever-increasing impact of
generative artificial intelligence (AI) on every industry and job role.

2024 Gartner IT Symposium/Xpo(TM), Orlando, Florida, 21-24 October, 2024

WHO: Kim Larsen, CISO at Keepit

WHAT: Keepit: Future-Proofing Data Governance for Tomorrow's Disaster Recovery Challenges
WHERE: Future Directions Stage
WHEN: Tuesday 22 October, 2:40 PM

REGISTRATION: keepit.com/gartner-it-symposium-america/

                                                                                                  Page 2 of 3
   Keepit at Gartner 2024: Bridging Data Governance and Disaster Recovery Keepit unlocks the tools for cyber
                           resilience at Gartner conferences across the US and Eu....

2024 Gartner IT Symposium/Xpo(TM), Barcelona, 4-7 November, 2024

WHO: Kim Larsen, CISO at Keepit

WHAT: Keepit: Bridging Data Governance and Disaster Recovery for Better Resilience
WHERE: Sagrada Familia, Level 4 AC Forum
WHEN: Wednesday Nov 6, 11:30-12:00

REGISTRATION: https://www.keepit.com/gartner-it-symposium-barcelona/

2024 Gartner IOCS London, 19-20 November, 2024

SESSION 1:

WHO: Kim Larsen, CISO at Keepit
WHAT: Keepit: Unlocking Resilience with Strong Data Governance
WHERE: Auditorium, Level 0, ExCeL London
WHEN: Tuesday Nov 19, 14.15-14.45

SESSION 2:

WHO: Kim Larsen, CISO at Keepit
WHAT: Keepit: Fast-Track to Data Resilience - Practical Steps for Successful Data Recovery
WHERE: Theater 2, Exhibit Showcase, ExCeL London
WHEN: Wednesday Nov 20, 12:45-13:05

REGISTRATION: keepit.com/gartner-iocs-london/

2024 Gartner IOCS Las Vegas, 10-12 December, 2024

Keepit has a solution provider session in Las Vegas. More information to come.

Keepit will be adding more details about upcoming Gartner events and speaking sessions later this fall. You can
find the latest details on our events page.

About Keepit:

Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud. Securing data in a vendor-
independent cloud safeguards essential business applications , boosts cyber resilience, and future-proofs data
protection. Unique, separate, and immutable data storage with no sub-processors ensures compliance with local
regulations and mitigates the impact of ransomware while guaranteeing continuous data access, business
continuity, and fast and effective disaster recovery. Headquartered in Copenhagen with offices and data centers
worldwide, over ten thousand companies trust Keepit for its ease of use and effortless backup and recovery of
cloud data.

For more information visit keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin .

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20241021622370/en/


CONTACT: RedIron PR for Keepit
Kari Ritacco

                                                                                                  Page 3 of 3
   Keepit at Gartner 2024: Bridging Data Governance and Disaster Recovery Keepit unlocks the tools for cyber
                           resilience at Gartner conferences across the US and Eu....

kari@redironpr.com


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: October 21, 2024


  
