

                                                                                                         Page 1 of 3
                Pega Infinity '24 Updates Accelerate Generative AI-Based Innovation for the Enterprise




 Pega Infinity '24 Updates Accelerate Generative AI-Based Innovation for the
                                 Enterprise
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                         October 30, 2024 Wednesday 7:47 PM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 1224 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: CAMBRIDGE, Massachusetts

Body


Pegasystems, a software company empowering digital transformation, issued the following news release on Oct.
29, 2024:

***

Latest release includes Pega GenAI enhancements and increased flexibility to accelerate transformation, improve
customer and employee experiences, and maximize efficiency

***

Pegasystems Inc. (NASDAQ: PEGA), the leading enterprise AI decisioning and workflow automation platform
provider, today announced the general availability of Pega Infinity 24.2. This latest release of Pega's core portfolio
of cloud-ready products introduces new generative AI capabilities and enhancements that help enterprises boost
employee productivity and innovate faster while optimizing customer experiences.

Pega Infinity '24.2 includes enhancements to its solutions across industries, including Pega Platform, Pega
Customer Decision Hub, Pega Customer Service, and Pega Sales Automation, which help organizations use AI to
further accelerate digital transformation at enterprise scale. This includes delivering applications faster and with
optimal business alignment, better engaging customers with contextualized experiences, and automating workflows
to reduce manual work and optimize employee performance.

New features in Pega Platform help improve user productivity while streamlining workflows so users can build, test,
and go live faster than ever before, including:

* Increased innovation with gen AI choice: Previewed at PegaWorld iNspire 2024 and available now, Pega has
expanded its gen AI Large Language Model (LLM) flexibility beyond OpenAI to support Amazon Bedrock from

                                                                                                       Page 2 of 3
              Pega Infinity '24 Updates Accelerate Generative AI-Based Innovation for the Enterprise

Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Vertex AI from Google Cloud. Clients can now easily leverage the model that
works best for their business needs to power their Pega GenAI capabilities.

* Development acceleration with Pega GenAI Blueprint: Pega GenAI Blueprint instantly creates application design
'blueprints' by describing an app concept in natural language. Powered by Pega GenAI, developers importing
blueprints into Pega's low-code App Studio can instantly access custom task lists with exact steps needed to
successfully take blueprint designs live and into production. This helps reduce errors, maximize efficiency, and
decrease time-to-market.

* More effective, accessible user experiences: Enhancements to Pega ConstellationTM set new standards for
creating the most effective user experience framework. These platform updates provide users with better
accessibility, mobility, and high-end user performance.

* Custom Pega GenAI Coaches across applications: Pega GenAI CoachTM is the generative AI-powered mentor
that proactively advises users to help them achieve optimal outcomes in Pega. Initially introduced to support select
Pega applications, developers can now add powerful "coaches" to any application on the Pega Platform for any
persona. This means organizations have the flexibility and freedom to build custom coaches for whatever use case
they need, such as a back-office productivity workflow, a customer-facing application, and everything in between.

Pega Customer Decision Hub (CDH) updates help both marketers and data scientists leverage AI for deeper
customer data insights to optimize every interaction, including:

* Improved access and control for customer journey orchestration: Marketers can better configure customer
journeys with pre-defined templates that accelerate the creation of outbound marketing messages, as well as tag
journeys to key initiatives with campaign codes and access full campaign views from a dedicated landing page.

* Create stronger brand voices: Using existing treatments, content inputs, and web pages, users can generate and
integrate brand voice with Pega GenAI to create and refine Next-Best-Action treatments and maintain brand identity
across all interactions.

* New integrations for better real-time decisioning: Snowflake and Google BigQuery integrations enable teams to
seamlessly leverage diverse data in Pega CDH to unlock deeper insights, and drive faster, more accurate decisions
to elevate customer engagement.

* New Pega Message Stream digital delivery service: Marketers can deliver, monitor, and optimize emails directly in
Pega CDH without a separate email service provider, helping to better understand customer preferences and
needs.

Pega Customer Service and Pega Sales Automation enhancements help customers to self-solve while empowering
agents and salespeople to do their best work, including:

* Seamless self-service experiences across chat and messaging: A new multi-experience panel enables customers
to self-serve more sophisticated requests with fast access to knowledge articles, customized offers, and next steps
for easy resolution directly within live chat and virtual assistant interactions.

* Automate contextual answers across channels: Agents can reduce manual searching and prompting and provide
faster, more accurate answers during customer interactions with Pega GenAI Knowledge Buddy capabilities in
Voice AI & Messaging AI, which quickly detect customers' intent in real-time and auto-generates responses.

* Optimize virtual sales meetings to close deals faster: Pega Sales Automation now offers enhanced real-time video
integration for Microsoft Teams, in addition to Zoom and Webex. During meetings, sellers benefit from Voice AI-
powered suggestions based on live conversations with tips to improve outcomes.

Pega Infinity updates are available now for Pega Cloud clients. Coupled with the largest global collection of Pega
expertise in the world, Pega Cloud ensures the most complete Pega experience available for Pega Infinity clients.

                                                                                                       Page 3 of 3
              Pega Infinity '24 Updates Accelerate Generative AI-Based Innovation for the Enterprise

This includes enhanced app deployment and performance, scalability and efficiency, security, and disaster
recovery.

For more information on Pega Infinity '24, visit https://www.pega.com/infinity.

Quotes & Commentary:

"Enterprises are embracing transformation enabled by AI and automation so they can quickly and effectively evolve
as business and customer needs shift," said Kerim Akgonul, chief product officer, Pega. "Pega Infinity's latest
enhancements supercharge enterprise efficiency and innovation with deeper generative AI capabilities that
accelerate developer and employee productivity while delivering exceptional customer experiences across
industries."

***

Supporting Resources:

* More information: Pega Infinity (https://www.pega.com/infinity)

* Product information: Pega GenAI Knowledge Buddy (https://www.pega.com/products/genai-knowledge-buddy)
and Pega GenAI Coach (https://www.pega.com/genai-coach)

* Additional background:Pega GenAI (https://www.pega.com/technology/generative-ai) and Pega GenAI Blueprint
(https://www.pega.com/blueprint)

***

Original text here: https://www.pega.com/about/news/press-releases/pega-infinity-%E2%80%9824-updates-
accelerate-generative-ai-based-innovation

[Category: BizComputer Technology]

Contact: Lisa Pintchman, VP, Corporate Communications, 617/866-6022, LisaPintchman.Rogers@pega.com; Sean
Audet, Director, Corporate Communications, 617/528-5230, Sean.Audet@pega.com; Ilena Ryan, Sr. Manager,
Public Relations, 617/866-6722, Ilena.Ryan@pega.com; Joanna Richardson, Director, Corporate Communications,
+44 (0) 118 9651 660, Joanna.Richardson@pega.com; Jon Brigden, PR & Communications Manager, +44 (0) 118
9398 584, Jon.Brigden@pega.com

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8900569 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: October 30, 2024


  
