

                                                                                                         Page 1 of 3
                                   Intermap’s Team Chosen for Major NGA Data Contract




                    Intermap’s Team Chosen for Major NGA Data Contract
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                           September 24, 2024 Tuesday 2:15 PM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: BUSINESS CONTRACTS; PARTNERSHIPS
Length: 1124 words

Body


Luno A budget increased to $290 Million—10x original amount

Team CACI named key partner for NGA’s commercial Earth observation program

Intermap advances AI/ML innovation in geospatial intelligence

DENVER, Sept. 24, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Intermap Technologies (TSX: IMP; OTCQB: ITMSF)
(“Intermap” or the “Company”), a global leader in 3D geospatial products and intelligence solutions, today
announced that, in partnership with CACI, Inc. – Federal (“CACI”), its team has been selected by the National
Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (“NGA”) as one of 10 qualified vendors for the Luno A program.

Luno A, a new NGA initiative, focuses on providing continually updated, low-latency foundation data to support
critical national security indicators. This program represents a significant advancement from the previous Economic
Indicator Monitoring (EIM) effort, which began in 2021. Luno A aims to enhance U.S. National Security Community
(NSC) insights by leveraging commercial satellite data to monitor a range of factors, including economic activities,
military capabilities and environmental conditions. With recent advancements in computer vision and AI-driven
geospatial intelligence, Luno A will integrate these technologies to provide real-time, actionable intelligence directly
into NSC’s analytic workflows.

The Luno A contract, valued at up to $290 million over five years, marks a substantial increase from the initial EIM
budget of $29 million and the previously planned $60 million ceiling. This growth underscores the expanding role of
unclassified computer vision capabilities within U.S. government operations.

Further to the previous announcement on June 16, 2021, Team CACI’s next-generation platform will combine
Intermap’s patented IRIS™ processing suite with CACI’s Feature Trace software. This integration will leverage

                                                                                                        Page 2 of 3
                               Intermap’s Team Chosen for Major NGA Data Contract

advanced geospatial AI/ML models to deliver precise, near-real-time feature datasets, reflecting dynamic changes
in land usage and infrastructure. This technology can be used standalone to generate insights for analysts as well
as powering DEM and map sheet updates through change detection of manmade and natural features.

This award builds on Intermap’s strategic partnerships with U.S. government agencies and their key suppliers,
including NGA, the Pentagon, U.S. Air Force, U.S. Geological Survey, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration Affairs and NASA.

“We are pleased to partner with CACI on the Luno A program and contribute to advancing real-life, 3D computer
vision capabilities for the NSC,” said Patrick A. Blott, Chairman and CEO of Intermap. “Our proprietary processing
suite, combined with CACI’s technologies, will add context to analytic assessments and power unparalleled insight
for national security.”

Intermap Reader AdvisoryCertain information provided in this news release, including reference to revenue growth,
constitutes forward-looking statements. The words "anticipate", "expect", "project", "estimate", "forecast", “will be”,
“will consider”, “intends” and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Although
Intermap believes that these statements are based on information and assumptions which are current, reasonable
and complete, these statements are necessarily subject to a variety of known and unknown risks and uncertainties.
Intermap’s forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties pertaining to, among other things, cash
available to fund operations, availability of capital, revenue fluctuations, nature of government contracts, economic
conditions, loss of key customers, retention and availability of executive talent, competing technologies, common
share price volatility, loss of proprietary information, software functionality, internet and system infrastructure
functionality, information technology security, breakdown of strategic alliances, and international and political
considerations, as well as those risks and uncertainties discussed Intermap’s Annual Information Form and other
securities filings. While the Company makes these forward-looking statements in good faith, should one or more of
these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary
significantly from those expected. Accordingly, no assurances can be given that any of the events anticipated by the
forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what benefits that the Company will
derive therefrom. All subsequent forward-looking statements, whether written or oral, attributable to Intermap or
persons acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. The forward-
looking statements contained in this news release are made as at the date of this news release and the Company
does not undertake any obligation to update publicly or to revise any of the forward-looking statements made
herein, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by applicable
securities law.

About Intermap TechnologiesFounded in 1997 and headquartered in Denver, Colorado, Intermap (TSX: IMP;
OTCQB: ITMSF) is a global leader in geospatial intelligence solutions, focusing on the creation and analysis of 3D
terrain data to produce high-resolution thematic models. Through scientific analysis of geospatial information and
patented sensors and processing technology, the Company provisions diverse, complementary, multi-source
datasets to enable customers to seamlessly integrate geospatial intelligence into their workflows. Intermap’s 3D
elevation data and software analytic capabilities enable global geospatial analysis through artificial intelligence
and machine learning, providing customers with critical information to understand their terrain environment. By
leveraging its proprietary archive of the world’s largest collection of multi-sensor global elevation data, the
Company’s collection and processing capabilities provide multi-source 3D datasets and analytics at mission speed,
enabling governments and companies to build and integrate geospatial foundation data with actionable insights.
Applications for Intermap’s products and solutions include defense, aviation and UAV flight planning, flood and
wildfire insurance, disaster mitigation, base mapping, environmental and renewable energy planning,
telecommunications, engineering, critical infrastructure monitoring, hydrology, land management, oil and gas and
transportation.

For more information, please visit www.intermap.com or contact:Jennifer BakkenExecutive Vice President and
CFOCFO@intermap.com +1 (303) 708-0955

Sean PeasgoodInvestor RelationsSean@SophicCapital.com +1 (647) 260-9266

                                                                               Page 3 of 3
                          Intermap’s Team Chosen for Major NGA Data Contract


Load-Date: September 24, 2024


 
