

                                                                                           Page 1 of 2
    ASEAN and Germany Enrich Partnership at the 8th ASEAN-Germany Development Partnership Committee
                                                 Meeting




       ASEAN and Germany Enrich Partnership at the 8th ASEAN-Germany
                Development Partnership Committee Meeting
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                         November 12, 2024 Tuesday 7:00 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 514 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: JAKARTA, Indonesia

Body


The Association of Southeast Asian Nations issued the following news on Nov. 11, 2024:

ASEAN and Germany reiterated their commitment to deepen cooperation at the 9th ASEAN-Germany Development
Partnership Committee (AG-DPC) Meeting held at the ASEAN Headquarters/ASEAN Secretariat today.

ASEAN and Germany noted ongoing developments in ASEAN, including the outcomes of the 44th and 45th ASEAN
Summits and Related Summits held last month in Vientiane; Lao PDR's 2024 ASEAN Chairmanship theme
"ASEAN: Enhancing Connectivity and Resilience" and its priorities for the year; updates on the implementation of
the Initiative for ASEAN Integration (IAI) Work Plan IV; progress on the ASEAN Smart Cities Network initiative; and
ASEAN's efforts to promote sustainable development. Concurrently, Germany apprised the Meeting on current
domestic affairs, efforts in navigating the current international and regional challenges, future economic
development and priorities related to climate change, renewable energy and security.

The Meeting reviewed the significant progress made in the implementation of the ASEAN-Germany Practical
Cooperation Areas (2023-2027) through various activities to date. Both sides acknowledged the need to advance
cooperation in key areas such as women and youth entrepreneurs, women empowerment and social inclusion, the
ASEAN Smart Cities Network as well as support for Narrowing the Development Gap and Initiative for ASEAN
Integration. The Meeting shared the significance of furthering collaboration on the emerging areas of disaster
management and humanitarian assistance, technical vocational education and training (TVET), food, agriculture
forestry and agroforestry, energy security and energy transition, climate cooperation and environmental protection
as well as Artificial Intelligence.

To further maximise the potential of the Development Partnership, the Meeting underlined the need for closer
collaboration in areas such as science, technology and innovation including information and communication
technology, cybersecurity, culture and people-to-people exchange, as well as youth cooperation and exchange, as

                                                                                             Page 2 of 2
      ASEAN and Germany Enrich Partnership at the 8th ASEAN-Germany Development Partnership Committee
                                                   Meeting

well as in supporting the Strategic Plans to Implement the ASEAN Community Vision 2045. Additionally, both sides
recognised the need to bolster the promotion and socialisation of the partnership to all stakeholders.

The Meeting also discussed cooperation under the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific as well as exchanged views
on regional and international issues of common concern.

The 8th AG-DPC Meeting was co-chaired by H.E. Dato' Astanah Abdul Aziz, Deputy Secretary-General of ASEAN
for ASEAN Political-Security Community, and H.E. Ina Lepel, Ambassador of the Federal Republic of Germany to
ASEAN. Members of the Committee of Permanent Representatives to ASEAN or their representatives were in
attendance. Timor-Leste participated as Observer.

***

Original   text    here:    https://asean.org/asean-and-germany-enrich-partnership-at-the-8th-asean-germany-
development-partnership-committee-meeting/

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8918917 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: November 12, 2024


  
