

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 3
    Hitachi Vantara Expands Hybrid Cloud Storage Platform with Object Storage, All-QLC Flash and Advancing
                                              Cloud Integration




Hitachi Vantara Expands Hybrid Cloud Storage Platform with Object Storage,
              All-QLC Flash and Advancing Cloud Integration
                                                           PR Newswire
                                         November 12, 2024 Tuesday 9:00 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 1387 words
Dateline: SANTA CLARA, Calif., Nov. 12, 2024

Body


PR NewswireVirtual Storage Platform One integrates object storage with block and file, expands dense capacity
with QLC flash, and extends software-defined cloud integration to provide reduced cost, improved management of
unstructured data, and unmatched energy efficiencySANTA CLARA, Calif., Nov. 12, 2024 /PRNewswire/ -- Hitachi
Vantara, the data storage, infrastructure, and hybrid cloud management subsidiary of Hitachi, Ltd. (TSE: 6501),
today announced the launch of new solutions available through itsVirtual Storage Platform Onedata platform.
Designed to redefine storage and data management for AI and analytics workloads, the new suite includes an all-
new quad-level cell (QLC) flash storage array with public cloud replication and an object storage appliance.
Together, these solutions deliver simplicity, security, and sustainable scalability to help organizations optimize data
management, ensuring they stay agile in an increasingly data-centric world.

For      more     information        about      Hitachi     Vantara's      Virtual    Storage      Platform     One,
visit.www.hitachivantara.com/products/storage-platforms/data-platformAs enterprises face mounting challenges in
managing the costs and complexities of rapidly expanding hybrid and multi-cloud environments, the exponential
growth of data continues to reshape the technological landscape. Many organizations are overwhelmed with finding
ways to scale their data infrastructure and modernize applications, all while managing carbon footprints and IT
budgets. A recentsurveyfound the larger the volumes of data a company works with, the more compute power it
needs, and the higher the associated costs, and in data analytics processes, for example, more than two-thirds of
the organizations surveyed experienced "bill shock" at least quarterly or more frequently.The addition of an all-QLC
flash storage array is significant as this technology is easily scalable and reduces the cost per gigabyte compared
to other flash types, making it a more economical choice for large-scale data storage needs without sacrificing
performance. Hitachi Vantara engineering has focused on uptime and reliability, offering dual port QLC media to
deliver data access if a hardware failure occurs. QLC flash storage offers higher density and lower power
consumption compared to traditional storage solutions. This efficiency means that organizations can reduce their
energy use, leading to lower carbon footprints. Additionally, the new object storage appliance is designed to easily
scale to accommodate vast amounts of unstructured data that is prevalent in fueling numerous AI use cases, and
each object is stored with rich metadata, which allows for easier categorization, searchability, and data lifecycle
management, helping organizations quickly find and retrieve the data they need."Enterprises today are navigating
an incredibly complex data landscape, with hybrid and multi-cloud environments and the growing influence of
GenAI transforming how they operate," saidOctavian Tanase, chief product officer, Hitachi Vantara. "Our latest

                                                                                                  Page 2 of 3
    Hitachi Vantara Expands Hybrid Cloud Storage Platform with Object Storage, All-QLC Flash and Advancing
                                              Cloud Integration

Virtual Storage Platform One solutions are designed to address these challenges head-on, providing customers
with the advanced tools they need to harness their data, drive innovation, and achieve sustainable growth. By
simplifying infrastructure and enhancing scalability, we are empowering businesses to unlock the full potential of
their data in ways that were previously unimaginable."The new suite delivers powerful solutions tailored to meet
evolving needs. These latest offerings include:Virtual Storage Platform One Block – The all-QLC flash storage array
with public cloud replication provides a new storage solution to harness QLC flash technology and deliver high-
density, cost-effective storage ideal for large-capacity needs. With integrated public cloud replication, users can
seamlessly backup and replicate data to the cloud for enhanced disaster recovery and data availability.Virtual
Storage Platform One Object – The object storage appliance is engineered for scalability and provides a robust
solution for managing massive volumes of unstructured data driven by AI workloads. It combines durability and
reliability, with multi-node configurations that ensure data availability and integrity, making it ideal for industries like
media, healthcare, and finance. As a result, customers can optimize costs and significantly reduce rack space,
power consumption, and CO2 emissions.The new offerings complementVirtual Storage Platform One SDS
Cloud, which is designed to protect critical data with zero impact on performance. This scalable, asynchronous
solution also enables seamless replication from on-premises to the cloud (AWS), using snapshots to deliver real-
time data for application development and testing in non-production environments. With support for multiple
availability zones, bolsters operational resilience while simplifying database expansion, ensuring continuous
protection and uninterrupted performance. The all-QLC flash storage array addition to the platform affirms Hitachi
Vantara's commitment to energy-efficient technology, asrecognized by ENERGY STAR®, which ranked Virtual
Storage Platform One in the top three best storage solutions for performance in energy efficiency. The
comprehensive suite of integrated solutions provides an end-to-end data management experience, which
seamlessly integrates storage and cloud, to create a unified and adaptable environment."The addition of all-QLC
flash and object storage appliance provides a compelling solution for organizations looking to manage large-scale
data environments efficiently,"said, Scott Sinclair, practice director for cloud, infrastructure and DevOps at
Enterprise Strategy Group. "Hitachi Vantara continues to address the pressing needs of modern IT infrastructure,
which helps businesses stay competitive in an era defined by data-driven innovation."For more information about
Virtual Storage Platform One and its suite of solutions, please visithttps://www.hitachivantara.com/en-
us/products/storage-platforms/data-platform.Additional ResourcesBlog: Growing Our Platform, to Help You Grow
Your BusinessBlog: Elevating VSP One to a New Level with Samsung QLCVirtual Storage Platform One
ObjectBlog: Hitachi Vantara Revolutionizes Midrange Storage with Virtual Storage Platform One Block Storage
AppliancesBlog: Virtual Storage Platform One Block: Simplicity, Sustainability and PerformanceConnect With
Hitachi VantaraLinkedInXFacebookAbout Hitachi VantaraHitachi Vantara is transforming the way data fuels
innovation. A wholly owned subsidiary of Hitachi Ltd., Hitachi Vantara provides the data foundation the world's
leading innovators rely on. Through data storage, infrastructure systems, cloud management and digital expertise,
the company helps customers build the foundation for sustainable business growth. To learn more,
visitwww.hitachivantara.com.About Hitachi, Ltd.Hitachi drives Social Innovation Business, creating a sustainable
society through the use of data and technology. We solve customers' and society's challenges with Lumada
solutions leveraging IT, OT (Operational Technology) and products. Hitachi operates under the 3 business sectors
of "Digital Systems & Services" – supporting our customers' digital transformation; "Green Energy & Mobility" –
contributing to a decarbonized society through energy and railway systems, and "Connective Industries" –
connecting products through digital technology to provide solutions in various industries. Driven by Digital, Green,
and Innovation, we aim for growth through co-creation with our customers. The company's revenues as 3 sectors
for fiscal year 2023 (ended March 31, 2024) totaled 8,564.3 billion yen, with 573 consolidated subsidiaries and
approximately 270,000 employees worldwide. For more information on Hitachi, please visit the company's website
athttps://www.hitachi.com.HITACHI is a trademark or registered trademark of Hitachi, Ltd. All other trademarks,
service marks, and company names are properties of their respective owners. View original content to download
multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/hitachi-vantara-expands-hybrid-cloud-storage-platform-
with-object-storage-all-qlc-flash-and-advancing-cloud-integration-302302563.htmlSOURCE Hitachi Vantara


Load-Date: November 12, 2024

                                                                                               Page 3 of 3
 Hitachi Vantara Expands Hybrid Cloud Storage Platform with Object Storage, All-QLC Flash and Advancing
                                           Cloud Integration



