

                                                                                             Page 1 of 2
    DeepTempo Emerges from Stealth Mode with Deep Learning-Based Snowflake Native App for Cybersecurity
                            Solution now available on Snowflake Marketplace




        DeepTempo Emerges from Stealth Mode with Deep Learning-Based
        Snowflake Native App for Cybersecurity; Solution now available on
                            Snowflake Marketplace
                                                   Business Wire
                                     November 12, 2024 Tuesday 5:05 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 607 words
Dateline: PALO ALTO, Calif.

Body


DeepTempo today announced its emergence from stealth mode with the launch of Tempo , a deep learning-based
Snowflake Native App available now on the Snowflake Marketplace. Tempo leverages collective deep learning to
improve the detection of potential cyberattacks while increasing the productivity of security teams. As part of the
launch, DeepTempo will be demonstrating its capabilities at Snowflake's annual developer conference, BUILD , on
November 14, following the successful collaboration with the Snowflake Native App Accelerator program.

Organizations can now leverage AI-powered security capabilities directly within their Snowflake environment,
maintaining data privacy and compliance while significantly enhancing their ability to detect and respond to evolving
cyber threats. Snowflake users can try it in minutes, and apply it to their data for enhanced protection, improved
security operations productivity, and cost savings.

The DeepTempo solution is based upon a foundation Log Language Model (LLGM) built and trained by
DeepTempo that detects anomalies in network traffic and provides additional context such as similar attack patterns
from the MITRE ATT&CK matrix, potentially impacted entities, and other vital information needed by security
operations teams for effective triage and response. Customers benefit from faster detection of attack indicators,
including new and evolving threats, and can optimize their security spending by running the DeepTempo software
on their existing security data lakes.

"Attackers are using AI and collaboration to surpass defenders in innovation. Our mission at DeepTempo is to
return the initiative to the defenders," said Evan Powell, founder and CEO of DeepTempo, an industry veteran with
extensive expertise in building leading companies in networking, storage, data platforms, and DevOps. "We are
opening our early access program to allow organizations to stay ahead of evolving cyber threats by using our
purpose-built AI to detect and respond to threats faster than ever before. Also, by making available our AI-driven
security solution as a Snowflake Native App, we are able to leverage Snowflake's high availability and disaster
recovery along with their security reviews and controls. Our Tempo software is available now to the thousands of
Snowflake customers."

                                                                                            Page 2 of 2
   DeepTempo Emerges from Stealth Mode with Deep Learning-Based Snowflake Native App for Cybersecurity
                           Solution now available on Snowflake Marketplace

"The launch of Tempo as a Snowflake Native App is just the latest example of how startups are leveraging
Snowflake's ecosystem and platform to build and scale their businesses," said Tarik Dwiek, head of technology
alliances, Snowflake. "Bringing DeepTempo into the Snowflake ecosystem provides our customers with even more
choice when it comes to building their network and building applications securely in the AI Data Cloud."

The Snowflake Native App Framework enables developers to build applications using Snowflake's core
functionalities, distribute them globally on Snowflake Marketplace , and deploy them within a customer's Snowflake
account.

About DeepTempo

DeepTempo builds AI-driven cybersecurity solutions that protect enterprises and service providers from
sophisticated cyber threats. By leveraging deep learning and purpose-built Log Language Models, the company
empowers organizations to defend their digital assets more effectively while optimizing security operations. Running
on security data lakes, the DeepTempo solutions help organizations avoid lock-in and reduce unnecessary
spending. To find out more, go to https://www.deeptempo.ai or check out our LinkedIn page, YouTube channel and
Medium posts.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20241112360551/en/


CONTACT: Georgiana Comsa
Silicon Valley PR

georgiana@siliconvalleypr.com


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: November 12, 2024


  
