

                                                                                                        Page 1 of 2
                             Nasuni Achieves AWS Manufacturing and Industrial Competency




          Nasuni Achieves AWS Manufacturing and Industrial Competency
                                                           PR Newswire
                                           October 15, 2024 Tuesday 8:00 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 750 words
Dateline: BOSTON, Oct. 15, 2024

Body


PR NewswireProgram Highlights Nasuni's Abilities to Simplify Data Management at a Global Scale for AWS
Customers in the Manufacturing SectorBOSTON, Oct. 15, 2024 /PRNewswire/ --Nasuni, a leading enterprise data
platform for hybrid cloud environments, announced today that it has achieved Amazon Web Services (AWS)
Manufacturing and Industrial Competency status. This designation highlights Nasuni's ability to tackle the
constraints caused by the hyper-growth of unstructured data, by helping customers achieve their manufacturing and
industrial vertical goals pertaining to the cloud.

 Achieving the AWS Manufacturing and Industrial Competency differentiates Nasuni as an AWS Partner Network
(APN) member that provides specialized unstructured data management and hybrid cloud services designed to
help enterprises adopt, develop, and deploy complex projects on AWS. To receive the designation, APN members
must possess deep AWS expertise and deliver solutions seamlessly on AWS. "Nasuni's commitment to cloud
partnerships and AWS is reflected in our latest achievement of the AWS Manufacturing and Industrial
Competency," said Michael Sotnick, Senior Vice President of Corporate and Business Development at Nasuni.
"The integration of our cloud-native file data services with AWS unlocks meaningful value for manufacturers in the
form of greater global collaboration, stronger protection against ransomware, and increased scale."Today,
manufacturing IT leaders find themselves at a crossroads, realizing the need to overhaul their infrastructure for
enhanced resilience and performance. As a result, companies are turning to innovative hybrid cloud solutions, such
as Nasuni, to scale operations efficiently, mitigate risks, optimize costs, and ensure fast performance wherever it is
needed across the globe. Nasuni currently works with large global manufacturers such as Movado, AIXTRON,
Western Digital, and Jakob Mueller.AWS is further providing for this need by enabling scalable, flexible, and cost-
effective solutions from startups to global enterprises. To support the seamless integration and deployment of these
solutions, AWS established theAWS Competency Programto help customers identify Consulting and Technology
APN Partners with deep industry experience and expertise. "There was some initial resistance to a cloud-based
solution, as we're not out to adopt new technology just to say we're on the cutting edge," explained Kenneth
Borthwick, Senior Director of Infrastructure at Movado. "But we knew there had to be a better solution to our
primary file storage and multi-site collaboration challenges. Some solutions offered a way to backup data to the
cloud but didn't have the global file sharing component. Others offered global file sharing but were still too
dependent on hardware which limited scale. Nasuni gives us both the global collaboration and data protection we
were looking for. Overall it has greatly improved file sharing and made the whole process of managing unstructured
data easier for Movado."For more information on how Nasuni can accelerate your manufacturing business goals,
clickhere.About Nasuni

                                                                                                       Page 2 of 2
                         Nasuni Achieves AWS Manufacturing and Industrial Competency

Nasuni is a scalable data platform for enterprises facing an explosion of unstructured data in an AI world. The
Nasuni File Data Platform provides effortless scale with hybrid cloud storage that delivers secure data access at the
edge and supports modern enterprise expectations for delivering AI-driven insights. Nasuni simplifies file data
management while increasing access and performance. Its best-in-class file recovery protects customers against a
range of cyber threats and eliminates the need for specialized backup and disaster recovery – all while cutting the
cost of infrastructure by up to 65%.Organizations worldwide rely on Nasuni, spanning across the manufacturing,
construction, energy, consumer goods, and public sectors. Nasuni's corporate headquarters is located in Boston,
Massachusetts, and the company delivers services to over 70 countries. For more information,
visitwww.nasuni.com.Social Media LinksLinkedIn:https://www.linkedin.com/company/nasuni
X/Twitter:https://www.twitter.com/nasuni

Instagram:https://www.instagram.com/nasuniMedia Contacts:US: Kristin Concannon
Nasuni
Phone: 617 416 2873
Email: Europe: Beth Collinson
Waters Agency
Phone: +44 (0)7591 004 738
Email: View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/nasuni-achieves-
aws-manufacturing-and-industrial-competency-302272538.htmlSOURCE Nasuni


Load-Date: October 15, 2024


  
