

                                                                                                          Page 1 of 3
                            Rand: Equity and Social Policy - Q&A With Jessica Welburn Paige




         Rand: Equity and Social Policy - Q&A With Jessica Welburn Paige
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                        September 4, 2024 Wednesday 8:30 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 989 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: SANTA MONICA, California

Body


(TNSres) -- Rand issued the following Q&A on Sept. 3, 2024, with Jessica Welburn Paige, a behavioral and social
scientist:

***

A growing number of school districts are using artificial intelligence to monitor students for suicide risk. It's a well-
meaning attempt to address one of the leading causes of death among young people. But a recent RAND report
(https://www.rand.org/pubs/research_reports/RRA2910-1.html) warned that the programs could compromise
student privacy and harm vulnerable students.

Jessica Welburn Paige was one of the lead authors of that report. Her work as a social scientist at RAND focuses
on questions of race and inequality. She has shown that Black Americans are more likely to fall out of the middle
class (https://www.rand.org/pubs/research_reports/RRA1259-3.html) than White Americans; that disaster recovery
(https://www.rand.org/pubs/research_reports/RRA2145-2.html) too often overlooks low-income communities of
color; and that suicide-risk algorithms may single out racial- and sexual-minority youth
(https://www.rand.org/pubs/commentary/2024/02/schools-let-ai-spy-on-kids-with-hopes-of-preventing.html).

"I want answers to some of the most significant social problems that we face," she said. "In particular, as someone
who studies race and inequality, I really want answers and solutions for people who have been essentially deprived
of the full rights of American citizenship. That's really what drives my work at RAND."

Let's start with AI. You recently looked at how it's being used in schools to identify students at risk for suicide. What
did you find?

These programs seem to be used in a majority of school districts across the country--yet most people probably
don't know about them. Districts install them on school-issued student computers. The idea is that they can identify
students who are experiencing mental health challenges or who may pose a safety risk to other students.

                                                                                                          Page 2 of 3
                         Rand: Equity and Social Policy - Q&A With Jessica Welburn Paige

But      there    is    limited    systematic    evidence      that   they     work.     And      we      identified
(https://www.rand.org/pubs/research_reports/RRA2910-1.html) a number of potential problems with them. There
are concerns the algorithms may disproportionately target students of color and their computer activity. There are
cases in which LGBTQ students searched for something and got flagged, and now they're outed--they have to go
talk to school administrators about what they were searching for and why. We heard stories of alerts being used to
discipline students, and some schools forward alerts to law enforcement. There are just a lot of ways for things to
go wrong.

What's the message for parents?

Pay attention and ask questions. How is this software being used in your district? What type of data does it collect?
What happens if something gets flagged? Who gets notified, does it become part of your student's record, and is
there a potential that law enforcement will get involved? This is a whole new space, and local, state, and national
policy has not kept up. So just ask as many questions as possible.

Stepping back a little, what experiences in your own life have shaped you as a researcher?

My daily life shapes my work as a researcher. As a woman of color in the U.S., I'm constantly existing in so many
different spaces, and I'm constantly asking how the inequalities that exist in those spaces can be made better. I'm
the parent of a child of color. I'm someone who grew up in one of the least diverse states in the country. I've had the
chance to go to some great universities, where I was also very much in the minority. All of these things made me
constantly think about the dynamics of inequality and how it operates and shapes opportunities and experiences.

You've looked at equity issues related to critical infrastructure, disaster recovery, home ownership. Is there one
finding from your research that you wish more people knew about?

One thing we often lose sight of is that what people of color want is to just have the full rights of American
citizenship. There are so many stereotypes and negative ideas that people of color are somehow operating in some
completely different sphere, that they're asking for something different or special from society. It's not that at all.
People     just   want     the    opportunity   to    go   to    school,     go    to   work,     own      a    home
(https://www.rand.org/pubs/commentary/2022/12/to-help-african-americans-gain-generational-wealth.html), and do
the things that we associate with the American Dream.

There's also sometimes this idea that people of color, African Americans, think one way, have one background, one
set of economic experiences. It's hard for some people to wrap their head around the fact that I had parents who
went to college, who worked in professional jobs--that it was always planned that I would go to college. That has led
me to want to make sure we have a more multidimensional understanding of the complexities of race and inequality
in the U.S.

You've got a book coming out, Die Hard City. What's it about and what made you decide to write it?

It focuses on African Americans in Detroit, and what it was like to live in the city at a time when it had just filed for
bankruptcy. This stereotype of Detroit as a doom-and-gloom Black city was pervasive. It was this image of
American decline and deindustrialization. But the things that have gone wrong in Detroit are not only Detroit
problems. They're national problems. Disinvestment in cities. Disinvestment in public education. Disinvestment in
infrastructure. I wanted to dig into how people frame that experience, how they make sense of decline, and how
they continue to promote ideas about success and mobility. It's about pursuing the American Dream. Despite all of
the obstacles, that remains their main goal.

***

Original  text   here:      https://www.rand.org/pubs/commentary/2024/09/equity-and-social-policy-qa-with-jessica-
welburn-paige.html

[Category: ThinkTank]

                                                                                        Page 3 of 3
                      Rand: Equity and Social Policy - Q&A With Jessica Welburn Paige

Copyright Targeted News Services

T40-MgEditor-8799623 T40-MgEditor


Load-Date: September 4, 2024


  
