

                                                                                                       Page 1 of 7
                 Axon reports Q3 2024 revenue of $544 million, up 32% year over year, raises outlook




Axon reports Q3 2024 revenue of $544 million, up 32% year over year, raises
                                 outlook
                                                           PR Newswire
                                          November 7, 2024 Thursday 4:01 PM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 6048 words
Dateline: SCOTTSDALE, Ariz., Nov. 7, 2024

Body


PR NewswireSCOTTSDALE, Ariz., Nov. 7, 2024 /PRNewswire/ -- Axon Cloud & Services revenue grows 36% to
$203 millionAnnual recurring revenue grows 36% to $885 millionNet income of $67 million supports non-GAAP net
income of $113 million and Adjusted EBITDA of $145 millionRaises full year revenue outlook to approximately
$2.07 billion, over 32% annual growth; expects full year Adjusted EBITDA margin of approximately 24.6%Fellow
shareholders,Axon is proud to report strong third quarter results and raise our outlook for the remainder of the year
once again. Robust demand for our products and services remains driven by our innovative product leadership and
deep customer relationships. We delivered over 30% annual revenue growth in each of the first three quarters of
2024, marking our 11th consecutive quarter of growth above 25%, achieved third quarter net income margin of
12.3%, and Adjusted EBITDA margin of 26.7% — our highest in over three years.TASER revenue of $222 million
grew 36% year over year, driven by demand for TASER 10 and associated cartridges and services.

Axon Cloud & Services revenue of $203 million, grew 36% year over year. Strength in Axon Cloud & Services was
driven by new customer adoption of Axon Evidence and continued expansion with our existing customers,
supporting increased net revenue retention of 123%. Sensors & Other revenue of $120 million increased 18% year
over year, driven by record demand for Axon Body cameras, with more than 100,000 units shipped in the
quarter.Axon's third quarter results demonstrate strong product-market fit and support our increased outlook. We
expect fourth quarter revenue in the range of $560 million to $570 million, representing over 30% year-over-year
growth at the midpoint. We expect fourth quarter Adjusted EBITDA in the range of $130 million to $135 million, or
approximately 23.5% Adjusted EBITDA margin. Our fourth quarter guidance implies full year 2024 revenue of
approximately $2.07 billion, representing over 32% annual growth and full year Adjusted EBITDA margin of
approximately 24.6%. We provide more detail on our product vision, most recent financial performance and
improved outlook, below.Select Highlights:Axon AI — The AI Era PlanAxon has established itself as a leading
technology vendor in public safety through our commitment to continually develop innovative solutions that enhance
the customer experience with the Axon ecosystem. Axon AI further advances our leadership, featuring a suite of AI-
powered products designed to increase operational efficiency, improve investigative accuracy and support proactive
policing. Today, this includes Axon Auto-Transcribe, Draft One, automatic license plate reading (ALPR) and video
redaction, to name a few.Beginning in Q4, our commitment has taken a new step forward with the introduction of
the AI Era Plan. The AI Era Plan enables customers to subscribe to an expanding set of AI capabilities and
features that further leverage our connected ecosystem as quickly as we can develop them. It provides new AI
features in a subscription offering and gives customers access to unmatched value across our AI innovations by

                                                                                                        Page 2 of 7
               Axon reports Q3 2024 revenue of $544 million, up 32% year over year, raises outlook

including the newest AI products we bring to market. Its exponential value is fully unlocked when combined with our
officer safety plans (OSP). Draft One is one illustrative example already live and in customers' hands today, utilizing
real-time connected body cameras, cloud evidence management, video transcription and generative AI."Axon AI
represents not just a single product, but acommitment to continuous innovation for our customers. We have
developed a suite of AI-powered products and solutions designed to evolve with the demands of modern law
enforcement — and our portfolio is only growing. As new capabilities emerge, we intend to integrate them
seamlessly into our hardware and software solutions, enhancing our customers' workflows. This will enable officers
to work smarter, faster, and more efficiently —driving real change in public safety."

— Rick Smith, Axon Founder and CEOAxon believes we are most successful when we listen to our customers and
seek to solve the most pertinent problems they face each day. Our development in AI is no different, and we are
building this technology through deep collaboration and partnership with our customers. In October, we highlighted
our vision for the AI Era Plan to more than 2,200 attendees at the 2024 International Association of Chiefs of Police
(IACP) Annual Conference and more than 2,000 attendees at the Association of the United States Army (AUSA)
Annual Meeting. Our demonstrations featured products available today and a roadmap of additional, in-
development capabilities, enabling us to gather critical feedback on where we are headed over the next 1-2 years.
The rapid and accelerating pace of AI innovation also supports us planning ahead for the next 5-10 years — early
interest in our AI Era Plan indicates our customers are ready.Alongside Draft One, we showcased additional AI use
cases including Axon Body 4 Live Translation. Axon Body 4 Live Translation utilizes Axon's cloud-connected body
cameras to enable real-time translation between two speakers in over 100 languages, removing language barriers,
fostering relationships and enhancing transparency. This feature is made possible through the Axon ecosystem,
which connects our devices to our advanced cloud software. We expect to make Axon Body 4 Live Translation
available to AI Era Plan subscribers in the first half of 2025.We are not stopping there. Our roadmap continues to
expand, and our pace of innovation is accelerating. In addition to Draft One and Axon Body 4 Live translation, we
previewed a suite of features in development for the AI Era Plan, including Evidence Translation, Form One, Brief
One, Smart Capture, Policy Chat, and CAD Q&A. We also continue to improve existing features and products,
including recent enhancements to our redaction tools delivering an estimated 70% time savings from our earlier
generation Redaction Assistant."We've seen65-75% time savingsjust by being able to push a button to get a
transcript."

— Lieutenant Steve Ferrie, Rowlett Police Department"...one of thebiggest, [most] exciting changes in
technology in policingthat I have seen..."

— Chief Steve Redfearn, Boulder Police Department"We spend a lot of time thinking about what could go wrong.
But we also need to think about what could go right.Can we do better than today?"

— Rick Smith, Axon Founder and CEO67% decrease in time spent writing incident reports — Fort Collins Police
Department with Draft One 32 minutes stolen vehicle recovery — Cobb County Police Department with Fusus AI
Image Search 75% decrease in time spent redacting evidence — Rowlett Police Department with Redaction
Assistant 400+ unauthorized drone detections — at Tulsa State Fair with Dedrone by Axon 1 camera = equivalent
of 5 officers searching for vehicle — Fairfax County Police Department with Fleet 3 ALPRThe statistics related to
Axon AI, such as time savings and productivity improvements, reflect data from select customer use cases and
specific implementations. These results are not guaranteed and may vary based on a range of factors unique to
each customer, including but not limited to the nature of their operations, the specific configurations of Axon AI
products, and the integration of AI tools within their workflows. Actual outcomes depend on each customer's
operational environment, training, and level of adoption. As with any technology deployment, results will vary, and
customers may experience different levels of efficiency and effectiveness.Axon Air — Drone as First
ResponderAxon's innovative momentum extends beyond AI into drones and robotics, where we are leading the
way to power drone as first responder (DFR) operations. We are thrilled to announce the closing of our acquisition
of Dedrone, bringing integrated airspace security technology — including comprehensive protection, detection,
identification and mitigation of unauthorized drones in restricted airspace — into the Axon DFR solution.Along with
Dedrone, Axon's DFR offering has continued to advance through our unmatched partnerships with Skydio and
DroneSense. Together, our DFR solution includes U.S.-made drone hardware and a newly introduced autonomous
docking solution from Skydio, enabling fully remote-controlled launches, landings, recharging and airspace

                                                                                                        Page 3 of 7
               Axon reports Q3 2024 revenue of $544 million, up 32% year over year, raises outlook

deconfliction for beyond visual line of sight (BVLOS) operations. In addition, our DFR solution integrates into Fusus,
which provides unified situational awareness by allowing agencies to monitor live drone feeds, share footage and
streamline coordinated responses. This combination positions us as the leader in powering scalable, end-to-end
DFR operations.The differentiated capabilities of our DFR offering are evidenced by the Campbell Police
Department in California recently receiving a first-of-its-kind waiver from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)
for BVLOS operations as part of its DFR program. Their approval includes nighttime operations, enabling 24/7
drone use, and allows the department to fly missions without the need for visual observers. We are excited to
enable this ground-breaking advancement in DFR operations as we continue to invest in this market
opportunity."This FAA approval is a major milestone for our department and our community. With the ability to
conduct drone operations day or night without the need for visual observers, we can respond faster and more
effectively to emergencies, improving both officer and public safety.This technology is a game changer in
ensuring we have the tools to support our community when it matters most."

— Chief Gary Berg, Campbell Police DepartmentAxon Aid — Partnering with first responders to support
heroic effortsAxon is steadfast in our commitment to supporting first responders and the communities they serve.
Helping our customers achieve better outcomes is at the center of everything we do. This is especially true in times
of crisis. When hurricanes Helene and Milton devastated communities across the Southeast U.S., thousands were
left grappling with extensive damage. Heroic first responders worked tirelessly around the clock conducting search
and rescue missions, restoring power, and providing essential resources — all while overcoming significant
communication challenges.Supporting their efforts, Axon Aid partnered with agencies, regardless of whether they
were Axon customers, to assist in post-disaster assessments and recovery support at no cost. The Axon Aid
emergency response team supported missions across four states, assisting more than 10 agencies and
communities in what became Axon Aid's longest deployment effort to date, spanning more than 16 days. Axon is
proud to play a small part in supporting our first responders on these critical missions, and we are inspired by their
dedication to public safety and their communities in times of need."During Hurricane Helene in Fairview, I worked in
conjunction with Axon Aid to enhance drone operations, coordinating real-time aerial footage to assess damage
and improve resource allocation. This experience demonstrated theeffectiveness of integrating drone
surveillance with Axon systems for rapid decision-making during emergency response."

— Firefighter with Graham Fire DepartmentQ3 2024 Summary ResultsQuarterly revenueof $544 million grew
32% year over year, exceeding our expectations, driven by growth in each of our product segments. Demand for
our latest TASER and body camera products remained strong, driving growth in TASER and Sensors & Other
revenue, while adoption of premium software offerings continued to fuel growth in Axon Cloud & Services.Total
company gross marginof 60.8% declined 130 basis points year over year, driven by increased stock-based
compensation expense and amortization of acquired intangibles in our cost of goods sold (COGS). Excluding the
impacts of stock-based compensation and intangibles amortization, non-GAAP company gross margin of 63.2%
increased 50 basis points year over year.Operating profitof $24 million decreased from $57 million year over year
primarily due to increased stock-based compensation expense. Stock-based compensation expense of $102 million
included $60 million of expenses related to broad-based equity incentive programs due to expected achievement of
operational and time based service components.COGS of $214 million, 39.2% of revenue, included $10 million in
stock-based compensation expense.SG&A expense of $192 million, 35.3% of revenue, included $55 million in
stock-based compensation expense.R&D expense of $114 million, 21.0% of revenue, included $36 million in stock-
based compensation expense.Net incomeof $67 million (12.3% net income margin), or $0.86 per diluted share,
supported non-GAAP net income of $113 million (20.8% non-GAAP net income margin), or $1.45 per diluted
share.Adjusted EBITDAof $145 million (26.7% Adjusted EBITDA margin) increased 54% year over year driven by
higher revenue and operating leverage.Operating cash flowof $91 million increased 45% year over year,
supporting free cash flow of $65 million and adjusted free cash flow of $68 million.As of September 30, 2024, Axon
had $1.01 billion incash, cash equivalents and investments, and outstanding convertible notes in principal
amount of $690 million, for a net cash position of $317 million, up $38 million sequentially.During the three months
ended September 30, 2024, we revised our previously issued financial statements from 2021 through the second
quarter of 2024 to reflect the impact of corrections of certain errors that we concluded were not material to any
previously issued financial statements. For additional information related to this revision, see Note 1 to our
condensed consolidated financial statements of the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended

                                                                                                       Page 4 of 7
               Axon reports Q3 2024 revenue of $544 million, up 32% year over year, raises outlook

September 30, 2024, which we expect to be available on November 8, 2024.Detailed definitions of our non-GAAP
financial measures and caution on the use of non-GAAP measures are included later in this letter.Financial
commentary by segmentAxon Cloud & Services revenue growth of 36% year over year was primarily driven by
new customer adoption of Axon Evidence and expansion with existing customers adopting premium software
offerings.Axon Cloud & Services gross margin of 72.3% decreased from 72.7% year over year. Excluding the
impacts of stock-based compensation expense and intangibles amortization, Axon Cloud & Services adjusted gross
margin of 75.2% increased from 73.7% year over year primarily due to a higher software mix revenue relative to
professional services. Software-only gross margin continued to exceed our target of 80%.Sensors & Other revenue
growth of 18% year over year was primarily driven by strong demand for Axon Body 4, partially offset by a decrease
in Axon Fleet revenue.Sensors & Other gross margin of 41.4% decreased from 46.0% year over year. Excluding
the impact of stock-based compensation and intangibles amortization, Sensors & Other adjusted gross margin of
43.3% decreased from 46.5% year over year due to manufacturing overhead reallocations made in the prior
year.TASER segment revenue growth of 36% year over year was primarily driven by strong demand for TASER 10
devices and associated cartridges and services.TASER segment gross margin of 60.8% decreased from 62.5%
year over year primarily due to increased stock based compensation expense. Excluding the impact of stock-based
compensation expense, TASER segment adjusted gross margin of 63.0% increased from 62.8% year over year
driven by investments in automation and cost reduction initiatives.Annual recurring revenue grew 36% year over
year to $885 million. Growth in annual recurring revenue is primarily driven by new users adopting our cloud
products and upgrades to premium offerings.Net revenue retention accelerated to 123% in the quarter, reflecting
our ability to deliver additional value to our customers over time and de minimis attrition. We drive adoption of our
cloud software solutions through integrated subscription plans, which include a variety of premium software options.
This Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) metric excludes the hardware portion of customer subscriptions and is
normalized to account for phased customer deployments throughout the year.Total company future contracted
revenue of $7.7 billion increased sequentially and is up 33% year over year. We expect to recognize between 15%
to 25% of this balance over the next 12 months and generally expect the remainder to be recognized over the
following ten years.2024 OutlookThe following forward-looking statements reflect Axon's expectations as of
November 7, 2024, and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Please refer to "Forward-looking Statements" below
for more information.Q4 2024For the fourth quarter, we expect revenue within the range of $560 million to $570
million, representing greater than 30% annual growth at the midpoint.We expect Adjusted EBITDA within the range
of $130 million to $135 million, representing Adjusted EBITDA margin of approximately 23.5%.We provide Adjusted
EBITDA guidance, rather than net income guidance, due to the inherent difficulty of forecasting certain types of
expenses and gains such as stock-based compensation, income tax expenses and gains or losses on marketable
securities and strategic investments, which affect net income but not Adjusted EBITDA. We are unable to
reasonably estimate the impact of such expenses, which could be material, on net income. Accordingly, we do not
provide a reconciliation of projected net income to projected Adjusted EBITDA.Full YearAxon's full year 2024
revenue expectation has improved to approximately $2.07 billion, representing greater than 32% annual growth.
This is an increase from our prior revenue guidance range of $2.00 billion to $2.05 billion, or 29.5% annual growth
at the midpoint.Axon expects full year 2024 Adjusted EBITDA dollars of approximately $510 million, representing
Adjusted EBITDA margin of approximately 24.6%. This is an increase from our prior Adjusted EBITDA guidance
range of $460 million to $475 million, which implied Adjusted EBITDA margin of approximately 23.1%We expect
stock-based compensation expenses to be approximately $360 million to $380 million, up from $355 million to $370
million previously. Because our stock-based compensation expense may vary based on changes in our stock price
or the actual timing of attainment of certain metrics, it is inherently difficult to forecast future stock-based
compensation expense.Full year stock-based compensation expense includes approximately $210 million for
broad-based equity compensation programs and a one-time enhanced equity compensation program provided to
employees whose compensation is under a specific threshold. Approximately $170 million in full year expected
stock-based compensation expense, primarily in SG&A and R&D, is related to the broad-based 2024 eXponential
Stock Plan and the 2024 CEO Performance Award approved by our shareholders in May 2024. These
performance-based incentive programs are achieved through stock price, operational and time-based requirements
and are divided into seven substantially equal tranches. As of September 30, 2024, we have recognized expenses
related to some tranches where we currently deem achievement to be probable. Approximately $43 million in
expense, primarily in COGS, is related to a one-time enhanced equity compensation program provided to
employees whose compensation is under a specified threshold.We expect 2024 CapEx to be in the range of $80

                                                                                                       Page 5 of 7
               Axon reports Q3 2024 revenue of $544 million, up 32% year over year, raises outlook

million to $95 million, unchanged from prior quarters. Our 2024 CapEx plans include investments in TASER 10
automation and capacity expansion, including cartridge capacity, global facility build-out and upgrades, such as
warehousing support for global shipping facilities.Quarterly conference call and webcastWe will host our Q3
2024 earnings conference call webinar on Thursday, November 7, at 2 p.m. PT / 5 p.m. ET.The webcast will be
available via a link on Axon's investor relations website athttps://investor.axon.comor can be accessed directly
viahttps://axon.zoom.us/j/98297372356.Statistical DefinitionsAnnual recurring revenue: Annual recurring revenue
is a performance indicator that management believes provides more visibility into the growth of our revenue
generated by our highest margin, recurring services. Annual recurring revenue should be viewed independently of
revenue and deferred revenue because it is an operating measure and is not intended to be combined with or to
replace GAAP revenue or deferred revenue, as they can be impacted by contract start and end dates and renewal
rates. Annual recurring revenue is not intended to be a replacement or forecast of revenue or deferred revenue. We
calculate annual recurring revenue as monthly recurring license, integration, warranty, and storage revenue,
annualized.Net revenue retention: Dollar-based net revenue retention is an important metric to measure our ability
to retain and expand our relationships with existing customers. We calculate it as the software, camera and TASER
warranty subscription and support revenue from a base set of agency customers from which we generated Axon
Cloud subscription and warranty revenue in the last month of a quarter divided by the software and camera
warranty subscription and support revenue from the year-ago month of that same customer base. This calculation
includes high-margin warranty revenue but purposely excludes the lower-margin hardware subscription component
of the customer contracts, as it is meant to be a SaaS metric that we use to monitor the health of the recurring
revenue business we are building. This calculation also excludes the implied monthly revenue contribution of
customers that were added since the year-ago quarter, and therefore excludes the benefit of new customer
acquisition. The metric includes customers, if any, that terminated during the annual period, and therefore, this
metric is inclusive of customer churn. This metric is downwardly adjusted to account for the effect of phased
deployments — meaning that, for the year-ago period, we consider the total contractually obligated implied monthly
revenue amount, rather than monthly revenue amounts that might have been in actuality smaller on a GAAP basis
due to the customer not having yet fully deployed their Axon solution. For more information relative to our revenue
recognition policies, please reference our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).Total
company future contracted revenue: Total company future contracted revenue represents remaining performance
obligations and includes both recognized contract liabilities as well as amounts that are expected to be invoiced and
recognized in future periods. The remaining performance obligations are limited only to arrangements that meet the
definition of a contract under Accounting Standards Codification Topic 606 as of September 30, 2024. We currently
expect to recognize between 15% to 25% of this balance over the next 12 months, and generally expect the
remainder to be recognized over the following ten years, subject to risks related to delayed deployments, budget
appropriation or other contract cancellation clauses.Non-GAAP MeasuresTo supplement the Company's financial
results presented in accordance with GAAP, we present the non-GAAP financial measures of EBITDA, Adjusted
EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin, Adjusted Gross Margin, Non-GAAP Net Income, Non-GAAP Diluted Earnings
Per Share, Free Cash Flow, and Adjusted Free Cash Flow. The Company's management uses these non-GAAP
financial measures in evaluating the Company's performance in comparison to prior periods. We believe that both
management and investors benefit from referring to these non-GAAP financial measures in assessing its
performance, and when planning and forecasting our future periods. A reconciliation of GAAP to the non-GAAP
financial measures is presented below.EBITDA (most comparable GAAP measure: net income) - Earnings before
interest expense, investment interest income, income taxes, depreciation and amortization.Adjusted EBITDA (most
comparable GAAP measure: net income) - Earnings before interest expense, investment interest income, income
taxes, depreciation, amortization, non-cash stock-based compensation expense, fair value adjustments to strategic
investments and marketable securities, transaction costs related to acquisitions and strategic investments, and
other unusual, non-recurring pre-tax items that are not considered representative of our underlying operating
performance (identified and listed below in the reconciliation).Adjusted EBITDA margin (most comparable GAAP
measure: net income margin) – Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of net sales.Adjusted gross margin (most
comparable GAAP measure: gross margin) – Gross margin before noncash stock-based compensation expense
and amortization of acquired intangible assets.Non-GAAP net income (most comparable GAAP measure: net
income) - Net income excluding the costs of non-cash stock-based compensation, gain/loss/write-
down/disposal/abandonment of property, equipment and intangible assets; fair value adjustments to strategic
investments and marketable securities; transaction costs related to acquisitions and strategic investments; costs

                                                                                                           Page 6 of 7
                Axon reports Q3 2024 revenue of $544 million, up 32% year over year, raises outlook

related to antitrust litigation and other unusual, non-recurring pre-tax items that are not considered representative of
our underlying operating performance (listed below). The Company tax-effects non-GAAP adjustments using the
blended statutory federal and state tax rates for each period presented.Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share (most
comparable GAAP measure: earnings per share) - Measure of Company's Non-GAAP Net Income divided by the
weighted average number of diluted common shares outstanding during the period presented.Free cash flow (most
comparable GAAP measure: cash flow from operating activities) - Cash flows provided by operating activities minus
purchases of property and equipment and intangible assets.Adjusted free cash flow (most comparable GAAP
measure: cash flow from operating activities) - Cash flows provided by operating activities minus purchases of
property and equipment and intangible assets, excluding the net impact of investments in our new Scottsdale,
Arizona campus and bond premium amortization.We believe that free cash flow and adjusted free cash flow
excluding the impact of bond premium amortization and net campus investment are non-GAAP measures that are
useful to investors and management to evaluate the Company's ability to generate cash. These non-GAAP
measures can also be used to evaluate the Company's ability to generate cash flow from operations and the impact
that this cash flow has on the Company's liquidity.Caution on Use of Non-GAAP MeasuresAlthough these non-
GAAP financial measures are not consistent with GAAP, management believes investors will benefit by referring to
these non-GAAP financial measures when assessing the Company's operating results, as well as when forecasting
and analyzing future periods. However, management recognizes that:these non-GAAP financial measures are
limited in their usefulness and should be considered only as a supplement to the Company's GAAP financial
measures;these non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, the
Company's GAAP financial measures;these non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered to be superior
to the Company's GAAP financial measures; andthese non-GAAP financial measures were not prepared in
accordance with GAAP or under a comprehensive set of rules or principles proposed by a third party.Further, these
non-GAAP financial measures may be unique to the Company, as they may be different from similarly titled non-
GAAP financial measures used by other companies. As such, this presentation of non-GAAP financial measures
may not enhance the comparability of the Company's results to the results of other companies.About AxonAxon is
a technology leader in global public safety. Our moonshot goal is to cut gun-related deaths between police and the
public by 50% before 2033. Axon is building the public safety operating system of the future by integrating a suite of
hardware devices and cloud software solutions that lead modern policing. Axon's suite includes TASER energy
devices, body cameras, in-car cameras, cloud-hosted digital evidence management solutions, productivity software
and real-time operations capabilities. Axon's growing global customer base includes first responders across
international, federal, state and local law enforcement, fire, corrections and emergency medical services, as well as
the justice sector, enterprises and consumers.Non-Axon trademarks are property of their respective owners.Axon,
Axon Aid, Axon Air, Axon Body, Axon Evidence, Axon Fleet, Draft One, TASER, TASER 10, the Filled Bolt within
Circle Logo and the Delta Logo are trademarks of Axon Enterprise, Inc., some of which are registered in the United
States and other countries. For more information, visitwww.axon.com/legal. All rights reserved.Forward-looking
StatementsForward-looking statements in this letter include, without limitation, statements regarding: proposed
products and services and related development efforts and activities; expectations about the market for our current
and future products and services, including statements related to our user base and customer profiles; the impact of
pending litigation; strategies and trends relating to subscription plan programs and revenues; statements related to
recently completed acquisitions; our anticipation that contracts with governmental customers will be fulfilled; our
expectations about the future implementation of new strategies related to artificial intelligence; the timing and
realization of future contracted revenue; the fulfillment of bookings; strategies and trends, including the amounts
and benefits of, R&D investments; the sufficiency of our liquidity and financial resources; expectations about
customer behavior; statements concerning projections, predictions, expectations, estimates or forecasts as to our
business, financial and operational results and future economic performance, including our outlook for Q4 2024
revenue, 2024 full year revenue, stock-based compensation expense, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA margin,
and capital expenditures; statements of management's strategies, goals and objectives and other similar
expressions; as well as the ultimate resolution of financial statement items requiring critical accounting estimates,
including those set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023 and our
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2024. Such statements give our current
expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Words such as
"may," "will," "should," "could," "would," "predict," "potential," "continue," "expect," "anticipate," "future," "intend,"
"plan," "believe," "estimate," and similar expressions, as well as statements in future tense, identify forward-looking

                                                                                                          Page 7 of 7
               Axon reports Q3 2024 revenue of $544 million, up 32% year over year, raises outlook

statements. However, not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words.We cannot guarantee that
any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and
assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions.
The following important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking
statements: our exposure to cancellations of government contracts due to non-appropriation clauses, exercise of a
cancellation clause, or non-exercise of contractually optional periods; the ability of law enforcement agencies to
obtain funding, including based on tax revenues; our ability to design, introduce and sell new products, services or
features; our ability to defend against litigation and protect our intellectual property, and the resulting costs of this
activity; our ability to win bids through the open bidding process for governmental agencies; our ability to manage
our supply chain and avoid production delays, shortages and impacts to expected gross margins; the impacts of
inflation, macroeconomic conditions and global events; the impact of catastrophic events or public health
emergencies; the impact of stock-based compensation expense, impairment expense, and income tax expense on
our financial results; customer purchase behavior, including adoption of our software as a service delivery model;
negative media publicity or sentiment regarding our products; the impact of various factors on projected gross
margins; defects in, or misuse of, our products; changes in the costs of product components and labor; loss of
customer data, a breach of security, or an extended outage, including by our third party cloud-based storage
providers; exposure to international operational risks; delayed cash collections and possible credit losses due to our
subscription model; changes in government regulations in the United States and in foreign markets, especially
related to the classification of our products by the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and
Explosives; our ability to integrate acquired businesses; the impact of declines in the fair values or impairment of
our investments, including our strategic investments; our ability to attract and retain key personnel; litigation or
inquiries and related time and costs; and counter-party risks relating to cash balances held in excess of federally
insured limits. Many events beyond our control may determine whether results we anticipate will be achieved.
Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate,
actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should
bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. Our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30 2024, which we expect to be available on November 8, 2024, lists various important factors
that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. These factors are intended
as cautionary statements for investors within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended, and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Readers can find them in Part II, Item 1A
under the heading "Risk Factors" in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10‑Q, and investors should refer to them. You
should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. You should understand that it is not
possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete
set of all potential risks or uncertainties.Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update
forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised,
however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Form 8-K, 10‑Q and 10‑K reports to
the SEC. Our filings with the SEC may be accessed at the SEC's web site atwww.sec.gov.Additional
DisclaimerThe AI Era roadmap is provided for informational purposes only and does not form part of any contract
or agreement. It is not a commitment to deliver any specific material, code, or functionality, and should not be relied
upon in making purchasing decisions. The development, release, timing, and pricing of any features or functionality
described for products remain at the sole discretion of Axon Enterprise, Inc., and are subject to change without
notice.CONTACT:Investor Relations
Axon Enterprise, Inc.
 View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/axon-reports-q3-2024-
revenue-of-544-million-up-32-year-over-year-raises-outlook-302299201.htmlSOURCE Axon


Load-Date: November 7, 2024


  
