

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 2
      Software Defined Automation expands Industrial DevOps solution for manufacturing automation systems




      Software Defined Automation expands Industrial DevOps solution for
                      manufacturing automation systems
                                                           PR Newswire
                                         November 12, 2024 Tuesday 5:15 PM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 953 words
Dateline: NUREMBURG, Germany, Nov. 12, 2024

Body


PR NewswireNew capabilities and more support for users of popular PLC vendors deliver improved management,
streamlined development, and lower OT cybersecurity risksNUREMBURG, Germany, Nov. 12, 2024 /PRNewswire-
PRWeb/ -- Today at SPS 2024Software Defined Automationannounced new features and expanded vendor support
for its Industrial DevOps solution. Automation engineers can upload documents, orchestrate complex workflows,
and comment on projects to improve management and development of their industrial automation systems. In
addition, Software Defined Automation increased support for Mitsubishi Electric, Rockwell Automation, and
Siemens programmable logic controllers (PLCs) and engineering software.With Software Defined Automation,
automation engineers securely connect to their systems from anywhere, streamline development and enhance
collaboration, quickly back up and recover code, and track PLC code changes across multiple vendors."Across
manufacturing, there is a very wide range of industrial controllers in use.

Some are state-of-the-art, but many older PLCs, robots, and drives are still employed in critical production
systems," said Dr. Josef Waltl, Founder and CEO, Software Defined Automation Inc. "The released extensions of
our end-to-end Industrial DevOps platform help the automation engineers tasked with keeping all of these devices
running reliably. Support for more vendors and more of their engineering software versions means more customers
can take advantage of Industrial DevOps, and the new features contribute to gains in efficiency, saved time and
cost, and reduced risk."With SDA, automation engineers securely connect to their systems from anywhere,
streamline development and enhance collaboration, quickly back up and recover code, and track PLC code
changes across multiple vendors.Software Defined Automation adds support for Mitsubishi Electric, Rockwell
Automation, and SiemensSoftware Defined Automation now supports Mitsubishi Electric's engineering software,
GX Works3. Automated Backup, code Version Control, and Browser-based Engineering for GX Works3 are
available today and enable automation engineers to make changes, save, deploy, and backup their PLCs from
anywhere using a web browser. In addition, Software Defined Automation has extended its support for Rockwell
Automation Studio 5000 Logix Designer back to version 15 and to version 14 for Siemens TIA Portal.New features
improve project management and collaboration, reduce time spent on low-value tasks, and decrease security
risksDocument Uploads, in General Availability as of today, provide manufacturers with a central repository for all
documentation associated with a project/machine/workcell, such as work instructions, maintenance guides, and
electrical drawings, to improve management and storage. Any documents uploaded to the selected project are fully
version managed. Rendering is currently available for PDFs with renderings for additional document types coming
soon.Pipelines, available as a Public Preview as of today, automate the orchestration of complex PLC backup,

                                                                                                 Page 2 of 2
     Software Defined Automation expands Industrial DevOps solution for manufacturing automation systems

deployment, and disaster recovery workflows. Configuring backups and deployments on a per-device basis,
especially across diverse, multi-vendor environments, is time-consuming and requires extensive manual effort.
Now, automation engineers can create a unified workflow that backs up, deploys, and restores PLC code versions
for hundreds of controllers at once, which is especially helpful to reduce mean time to recover (MTTR) in the event
of a disaster, cyberattack, or other incident.Project Commenting, available as a Public Preview as of today,
enhances collaboration and communication among automation engineers as they collectively work on PLC
programs. Users can add comments to each block of PLC code, and then Project Commenting displays a
notification to indicate comments are present and available to be addressed. Users can review the comments,
make changes to the code based on the input, and respond back, all within the project.Industrial DevOps at SPS
2024On 12-14 November 2024, Software Defined Automation is showcasing its Industrial DevOps solution in Hall 7
Stand 196 at SPS 2024. Attendees can learn how to manage, extend, deploy, and secure their PLC code and see
live demos of Automated Backup, Version Control, Browser-based Engineering, Factory Agent AI-generated Code
Documentation, and Secure Remote Access. A modular robot cell presented in partnership with NEXOS.Group
simulates remote robot commissioning, using Industrial DevOps to configure the robot, integrate it into a production
system, and test it.In addition, in Hall 3A Stand 411, SEW-EURODRIVE will preview its DriveOperations concept, a
secure, web-based tool developed jointly with Software Defined Automation and Clevertech S. p. A. that
revolutionizes the orchestration and distribution of software for the operational technology of different
manufacturers.About Software Defined AutomationFounded by manufacturing, industrial software, and cloud
experts, Software Defined Automation envisions a future where PLC management and development is simple,
secure, and efficient, so that factories can increase uptime, reduce mean time to recover, and maximize the
productivity of their assets. The company is headquartered in Boston with offices in Munich, Germany. For more
information, visitwww.softwaredefinedautomation.io.Media ContactHilary Ives, Software Defined Automation, 1
339-234-6929,                 ,www.softwaredefinedautomation.io                            View              original
content:https://www.prweb.com/releases/software-defined-automation-expands-industrial-devops-solution-for-
manufacturing-automation-systems-302303121.htmlSOURCE Software Defined Automation


Load-Date: November 12, 2024


  
