

                                                                           Page 1 of 3
     SBA ANNOUNCES 14 NEW AWARDS FOR REGIONAL INNOVATION CLUSTER NETWORK TO DRIVE
             NATIONWIDE SMALL BUSINESS GROWTH, JOB CREATION AND INNOVATION




   SBA ANNOUNCES 14 NEW AWARDS FOR REGIONAL INNOVATION
CLUSTER NETWORK TO DRIVE NATIONWIDE SMALL BUSINESS GROWTH,
              JOB CREATION AND INNOVATION
                                                 States News Service
                                              October 3, 2024 Thursday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 1094 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


The following information was released by the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA):

Today,Administrator Isabel Casillas Guzman,head of theU.S. Small Business Administration (SBA)and the voice in
President Biden's Cabinet for America's more than 34 million small businesses,announced the expansion of the
SBA's Regional Innovation Cluster (RIC) networkwith 14 new awards. These awards aim to enhance the reach and
impact of the SBA's support for innovative small businesses and entrepreneurial support organizations across the
country.

"As the Biden-Harris Administration continues to deliver historic investments in America that strengthen innovation,
manufacturing, and emerging industries, these 14 new awardees will serve as vital hubs connecting entrepreneurs
with the resources needed to develop cutting-edge technologies critical to the nation's economic and security
priorities," said Administrator Guzman."Our nation's entrepreneurs develop and commercialize innovative
technologies in areas of global importance, including biotechnology, cybersecurity, smart manufacturing, and
sustainable agriculture. The SBA's Regional Innovation Cluster network helps America's entrepreneurs start and
scale their businesses in these highly competitive industries with a focus on leveraging regional strengths and
collaboration strengthening America's competitiveness."

"For the first time, the SBA is tailoring funding for emerging and mature clusters,"said Bailey DeVries, Associate
Administrator for SBA's Office of Investment and Innovation. "The SBA recognizes innovation clusters across
industries and technology verticals are at different stages in their lifespan, and the varied funding levels right-sizes
our awards so clusters can grow and improve their support of small businesses and startups."

The SBA launched the RIC Initiative in September 2010 to promote and support the development of clusters, which
are geographically concentrated groups of interconnected businesses, suppliers, service providers, and associated
institutions in a particular industry or field across the country. Clusters act as a networking hub for small businesses,
convening several resources to help navigate the funding, procurement, and supply-chain opportunities in a specific

                                                                          Page 2 of 3
    SBA ANNOUNCES 14 NEW AWARDS FOR REGIONAL INNOVATION CLUSTER NETWORK TO DRIVE
            NATIONWIDE SMALL BUSINESS GROWTH, JOB CREATION AND INNOVATION

industry. They also assist businesses in matching cutting-edge technology to industry needs and increase the
number of innovative small businesses and entrepreneurs in the nation's supply chain.

"For 14 years, the RIC Initiative has had an incredible impact in communities and industries across the country,
supporting startups and small businesses as they enter the nation's supply chain. We look forward to continuing to
expand our nation's innovation ecosystem and ensuring small businesses can match their cutting-edge
technologies to industry opportunities," said SBA's Investment and Innovation Ecosystems Director Brittany Sickler.

This funding makes awards for the first time at two funding levels: emerging and mature clusters. Emerging clusters
develop and deploy small business support services in their designated regions and industries, and the RIC
Initiative enables them to scale their current and future programming to reach more small businesses. Mature
clusters have experience building and implementing programming to support small businesses, and the RIC
Initiative enables them to increase the effectiveness of programming and operations to reach more small
businesses and strengthen existing and new partnerships.

The new Regional Innovation Clusters are:

AgTech Innovation Alliancewill support AgriFoodTech small businesses in California's Central Valley.

Applied Research Institutewill support small businesses in the biotech industry across central Indiana.

Bounce Innovation Hub will support small businesses developing novel materials for medical devices and wearable
sensors in Northeast Ohio.

Celdara Medical will support life science small businesses across Vermont, New Hampshire, Maine, Delaware, and
Rhode Island.

CleanTech Alliance Washington will support small businesses in the clean technology industry in Washington state.

Hyperion Technologies will support small businesses developing clean technologies in the Four Corners region of
Arizona, New Mexico, Utah, and Colorado.

Integrative Business Services will support artificial intelligence and optics small businesses in Southern Arizona.

LSI Business Developmentwill support small, advanced manufacturers in Utah

RIoT will support small businesses building internet of things (IoT) and data economy technologies in North
Carolina.

Shadow Ridge Analytics will support small businesses in the advanced engineering and critical materials industries
in Southwest Montana.

Southwestern College Foundation will support small businesses in the manufacturing and biotechnology industries
in San Diego and Imperial Counties in California.

StartUp Junkie Consulting will support small businesses in leveraging Lithium for the clean energy and electric
vehicle transition across Northeast Texas, Southern Arkansas, Northern Louisiana, and West Mississippi.

The Water Council will support small businesses in the water and resiliency industry in Wisconsin.

UpSurge Baltimorewill support small businesses in cybersecurity and biotechnology industries across the Baltimore
metropolitan area.

To learn more about the RIC Initiative, including current RICs, please visit:Regional Innovation Clusters | U.S. Small
Business Administration (sba.gov).

                                                                            Page 3 of 3
      SBA ANNOUNCES 14 NEW AWARDS FOR REGIONAL INNOVATION CLUSTER NETWORK TO DRIVE
              NATIONWIDE SMALL BUSINESS GROWTH, JOB CREATION AND INNOVATION

###

About SBA's Office of Investment and Innovation

The U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) Office of Investment and Innovation (OII) leads programs that
provide the U.S. growth-oriented small business and startup community with access to financial capital, networks,
assistance, and RandD funds to develop commercially viable innovations. Our work is underpinned by public-
private partnerships that help small businesses on their trajectory from idea to IPO. Learn more atOffice of
Investment and Innovation (OII).

About the U.S. Small Business Administration

The U.S. Small Business Administration makes the American dream of business ownership a reality. As the only
go-to resource and voice for small businesses backed by the strength of the federal government, the SBA
empowers entrepreneurs and small business owners with the resources and support they need to start, grow, or
expand their businesses, or recover from a declared disaster.It delivers services through an extensive network of
SBA field offices and partnerships with public and private organizations. Learn more atwww.sba.gov.


Load-Date: October 4, 2024


  
