

                                                                             Page 1 of 8
  BEIJING DECLARATION ON JOINTLY BUILDING AN ALL-WEATHER CHINA-AFRICA COMMUNITY WITH A
                             SHARED FUTURE FOR THE NEW ERA




BEIJING DECLARATION ON JOINTLY BUILDING AN ALL-WEATHER CHINA-
   AFRICA COMMUNITY WITH A SHARED FUTURE FOR THE NEW ERA
                                                 States News Service
                                             September 5, 2024 Thursday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 5968 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: BEIJING, China

Body


The following information was released by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People's Republic of China:

We, the Heads of State, Government and Delegations of the People's Republic of China and 53 African
countries,"and the Chairperson of the African Union Commission, gathered in China from September 4 to 6 for the
2024 Beijing Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC). Under the theme "Joining Hands to
Advance Modernization and Build a High-Level China-Africa Community with a Shared Future,""the Summit
adopted by consensus the Beijing Declaration on Jointly Building an All-Weather China-Africa Community with a
Shared Future for the New Era.

I"Jointly Building a High-Level China-Africa Community with a Shared Future

1."We fully affirm that Chinese and African leaders"advocate on various occasions visions and initiatives of building
a community with a shared future for mankind, high-quality Belt and Road cooperation, the Global Development
Initiative"(GDI), the Global Security Initiative (GSI) and the Global Civilization Initiative (GCI)."We"call on countries
around the world to work together to build an open, inclusive, clean and beautiful world of lasting peace, universal
security and shared prosperity, promote global governance featuring extensive consultation and joint contribution
for shared benefit, apply the common values of humanity, build a new type of international relations,"and jointly
usher in a bright future of peace, security, prosperity and progress.

2."China applauds Africa"for"accelerating"regional integration and its economic development"through implementing
the First Ten Year Implementation Plan of Agenda 2063 and launching the Second Ten Year Implementation
Plan."Africa commends China for supporting the launch of the"Second Ten Year Implementation Plan."China is
willing to strengthen cooperation with Africa in the priority areas identified by the Second Ten Year Implementation
Plan of Agenda 2063.

3."We will jointly implement the important common understandings reached at the high-level meeting themed
"Strengthening Governance Experience Exchanges and Exploring Development Paths to Modernization.""We
believe"that China and Africa joining hands in advancing their respective"modernization is the historic mission and

                                                                             Page 2 of 8
  BEIJING DECLARATION ON JOINTLY BUILDING AN ALL-WEATHER CHINA-AFRICA COMMUNITY WITH A
                             SHARED FUTURE FOR THE NEW ERA

the call"of the"times in"jointly building a high-level China-Africa community with a shared future. Modernization is a
common pursuit"of countries around the world, and global modernization should be modernization featuring
peaceful development, mutually beneficial cooperation and prosperity for all. China and Africa stand ready to
enhance exchanges between countries, legislatures and governments, and at subnational levels, deepen
experience sharing in such areas as governance, modernization and poverty reduction, and support each other in
exploring models of modernization based on the characteristics of their own civilizations,"development
needs,"science, technology and innovation. China will always walk side by side with Africa on its path to
modernization.

The African side speaks highly of the Third Plenary Session of the 20th Central Committee of the Communist Party
of China held in July this year. It believes that the systematic plans drawn up at the session for further deepening
reform comprehensively to advance Chinese modernization will provide more development opportunities for
countries around the world, including African countries.

4."The year 2024 marks the 70th anniversary of the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence. Africa commends
China's consistent commitment to these important principles when developing relations with Africa"and believes
that these principles are equally important for Africa in pursuing development, maintaining friendly state-to-state
relations and respecting sovereign equality of each other. China will continue to follow the principle of sincerity, real
results, amity and good faith and take the right approach to friendship and interests. China will"continue to"respect
African countries'"political and economic choices based on their own national conditions and honor the principles of
noninterference in African countries'"internal affairs"and"nonattachment of political strings to assistance to Africa.
China and Africa will always honor the everlasting spirit of China-Africa friendship and cooperation,"characterized
by sincere friendship and equality, win-win for mutual benefit and common development, fairness and justice, and
progress with the times and openness and inclusiveness,"jointly build an all-weather China-Africa community with a
shared future for the new era.

5."We underscore that China and Africa are committed to supporting each other on issues of their core interests
and major concerns. China reaffirms its firm support for Africa's efforts to safeguard national independence"and
unity, territorial integrity, sovereignty, security and development interests. Africa reaffirms its firm commitment to the
one-China principle, and reaffirms that there is but one China in the world, Taiwan is an inalienable part of China's
territory and the Government of the People's Republic of China is the sole legal government representing the whole
of China, and firmly supports all efforts by the Chinese government to achieve national reunification. Issues related
to Hong Kong, Xinjiang and Xizang are China's internal affairs, as observed in international law and the
noninterference principle.

6."We recognize that"promoting and protecting human rights including the right to development is a common cause
of all humanity, and believe"that human rights exchanges and cooperation should be carried out on the basis of
mutual respect, equality and opposing politicization."We firmly oppose politicization of human rights agenda and
politicization of the United Nations Human Rights Council and its relevant mechanisms, and oppose all forms of
neocolonialism and international economic exploitation. We call on the international community to resolutely resist
and combat all forms of racism and racial discrimination, and oppose acts of intolerance, stigmatization, and
incitement to violence against people based on religion or belief.

7."China supports African countries in increasing their influence and role"in global governance, in particular, by
requiring a more inclusive framework to address the world's problems. China believes that Africans are qualified to
serve as heads of international organizations and institutions, and supports their work."Africa appreciates it that
China is the first country to support the AU in joining the G20. China will continue"to support the priorities
concerning Africa at the G20. China applauds and welcomes more African countries to join the BRICS family and
welcomes the Cameroonian candidate"to serve as the President of the 79th session of the U.N."General Assembly.

8."China"and Africa"jointly call for"an equal and orderly multipolar world, and firmly safeguard the international
system with the U.N. at its core, the international order underpinned by international law, and the basic norms
governing international relations underpinned by the purposes and principles of the U.N. Charter. We call for

                                                                             Page 3 of 8
  BEIJING DECLARATION ON JOINTLY BUILDING AN ALL-WEATHER CHINA-AFRICA COMMUNITY WITH A
                             SHARED FUTURE FOR THE NEW ERA

necessary reform and strengthening of"the U.N. including its Security Council, redressing the historical injustices
done to Africa, and increasing the representation of developing countries, African countries in particular, in the U.N.
and its Security Council. China supports making special arrangements on the U.N. Security Council reform to meet
Africa's aspiration as a priority.

China noted that the 37th AU Summit issued the Proclamation on Building a United Front to Promote the Cause of
Justice and Payment of Reparations to Africans in February 2024. The Proclamation"expresses opposition to
historical"crimes including slave trafficking, colonialism and racial segregation, and calls"for"bringing"justice to
Africa through reparations. We believe"that Eritrea, South Sudan, Sudan and Zimbabwe have the right to decide
the future of their own country and continue their economic and social development, and"we demand that the
United States and other Western countries put an end to the long-term sanctions and unjust treatment imposed
on"these countries.

9."China and Africa jointly call for a universally beneficial and inclusive economic"globalization that meets the
common needs of all countries, especially the developing countries, and attach great importance to
the"concerns"of"African countries. We call for reforming"the international financial system and
improving"development financing for countries in the Global South to realize common prosperity"and better meet
the development needs of African countries. We will take an active part in and promote the reform of multilateral
financial institutions, including quota, special drawing rights and voting rights reform of the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund (IMF). We call for increasing the representation and voice developing countries, so that
the international monetary and financial systems will better reflect the changes in the international economic
landscape"in a more just way.

China and Africa"will continue to uphold the core values and"basic"principles of the World Trade Organization
(WTO), oppose attempts to decouple with others"and"sever supply chains, resist unilateralism and
protectionism,"safeguard the"legitimate interests"of the developing members, including China and African countries,
and add vitality and momentum to global economic growth. China supports the 14th Ministerial Meeting of the WTO
to be held in 2026 on African continent, in generating development-oriented outcomes. China and Africa will actively
participate in the reform of the WTO and believe that the reform should aim at building an inclusive, transparent,
open, nondiscriminatory and fair multilateral trading"system. It needs to reinforce the centrality of developmental
agenda in the WTO work, and have a full and well-functioning dispute settlement mechanism, while preserving the
fundamental principles of the WTO. We condemn the unilateral coercive measures imposed by some developed
countries, which infringe on the right to sustainable development of developing countries, and"measures of
unilateralism and protectionism"adopted under the pretext of addressing climate change and protecting the
environment, such as the Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism (CBAM). We will stay committed to building safe
and stable supply chains for key minerals, to benefit the entire world and promote the sustainable development of
Chinese and African peoples. We welcome the initiative of the U.N. General Assembly to establish a panel to
advise on how to enhance international cooperation with regard to critical energy transition minerals. We call for
helping supplying countries of raw materials to increase the value of their industrial chains.

10."China commends Uganda for successfully"convening the 19th Non-Aligned Movement Summit and"the G77
plus China Third South Summit in January 2024 to advance"solidarity and cooperation of the Global South."China
and Africa, as the biggest developing country and the continent home to"the largest number"of developing
countries,"belong to the Global South. We invariably stand in solidarity with fellow developing countries through
thick and thin, uphold"independence, respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity,"and noninterference in"internal
affairs, and seek unity"and development. We stand against drawing lines on"ideological grounds, oppose"bloc
confrontation, and safeguard the common interests of the Global South in the new round of reform on global
governance system."China congratulates the Gambia for hosting the 15th Summit of Heads of State and
Government of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation in May 2024, which addressed matters that affect not only
Muslims around the world but all humanity, through constructive dialogue.

11."China commends Africa for"hosting the 22nd and 27th sessions"of the UNFCCC Conference of the Parties and
speaks"positively of the inaugural Africa Climate Summit held in Nairobi in September 2023 under the theme of

                                                                             Page 4 of 8
  BEIJING DECLARATION ON JOINTLY BUILDING AN ALL-WEATHER CHINA-AFRICA COMMUNITY WITH A
                             SHARED FUTURE FOR THE NEW ERA

"Driving Green Growth and Climate Finance Solutions for Africa and the World." We reaffirm"the importance of the
targets"and principles of the UNFCCC"and its Kyoto Protocol and Paris Agreement, the Nairobi Declaration and the
Declaration on China-Africa Cooperation on Combating Climate Change."We call on"the international community to
implement"such"principles as"equity and common but differentiated responsibilities,"respect countries' independent
choice of the path of energy transition in line with their respective national realities to achieve the common
objectives of the entire world, accommodate and take seriously"the"particularities of developing countries"including
African countries, and place equal importance on small island developing states"and landlocked developing
countries."While recalling the spirit of the Marrakech Declaration issued at the First Africa Action Summit"held in
November 2016, we call on developed countries to do more"to honor their obligation"of providing and mobilizing
climate finance to developing countries under the Green Climate Fund, the Loss and Damage Fund and the
Adaptation Fund, among others, firmly fulfill their obligation"of taking the lead in reducing emissions,"lay equal
importance on mitigation and adaptation, and strengthen financial, technical, and capacity-building support for
African countries to help them enhance their ability, adaptability"and resilience to tackle climate change."We call on
developed countries to take seriously the special needs of developing countries including African countries in
responding to climate change challenges"and achieving sustainable development and transition, and provide more
predictable and sustainable financial support and technology transfer"in addition to development assistance.

We express our concern about the economic vulnerability of African countries in particular small island states"in
Africa, and call on the international financial institutions and multilateral development banks to consider how the
Multidimensional Vulnerability Index could be used as a complement to existing policies. We encourage China and
African countries with potential and experience to propose tripartite cooperation initiatives and projects.

II"Fostering Synergy Between"High-Quality Belt and Road Cooperation"and"the Goals of Agenda 2063 of the
AU"and"the U.N. 2030 Agenda"for Sustainable Development

12."We will jointly implement the important consensus reached at the high-level meeting themed "Promoting High-
Quality Belt and Road Cooperation and Building a Development Platform of Modernization by"Planning Together,
Building Together, and Benefiting Together.""We will follow the guidance of the Silk Road spirit of peace and
cooperation, openness and inclusiveness, mutual learning, and mutual benefit, synergize our efforts with the
implementation of the Agenda 2063 of the AU and the China-Africa Cooperation"Vision 2035, and adhere to the
principle of planning together, building together, and benefiting together and the philosophy"of open, green and
clean cooperation to advance high-standard, people-centered and sustainable Belt and Road cooperation between
China and Africa. We will continue to work for greater synergy between China-Africa high-quality Belt and Road
cooperation and"the goals of Agenda 2063 of the AU, the U.N. 2030 Agenda"for Sustainable Development and the
development strategies of African countries, in an effort to make greater contribution to advancing international
cooperation and promoting global growth. Africa warmly congratulates"the successful convening of the Third Belt
and Road Forum for International Cooperation in October 2023 in Beijing. We agree to support the U.N. in
convening the Summit of the Future"and adopting a positive Pact for the Future, so as to better implement the U.N.
2030"Agenda for Sustainable Development.

13. As an important partner of Africa's development agenda, China stands ready to enhance cooperation with
African member states of FOCAC, the AU and its affiliated organs and African subregional organizations in actively
implementing the African plans"including the Program for Infrastructure Development in Africa (PIDA), the
Presidential Infrastructure Champion Initiative (PICI), the Africa Union Development Agency-New Partnership for
Africa's Development (AUDA-NEPAD), the Comprehensive African Agricultural Development Program (CAADP),
and the Accelerated Industrial Development for Africa (AIDA)."China supports Africa's economic integration and
connectivity, and will deepen and accelerate cooperation"with Africa on key transnational and
transregional"infrastructure programs to"promote Africa's development."We support synergizing the aforementioned
plans with Belt and Road cooperation projects to strengthen logistics connectivity between China and Africa and
increase"the volume of trade.

14."We highlight the significance of"the African Continental Free Trade Area"(AfCFTA), and"that"the full
implementation of the AfCFTA agreement will"boost Africa's economic development including through value

                                                                             Page 5 of 8
  BEIJING DECLARATION ON JOINTLY BUILDING AN ALL-WEATHER CHINA-AFRICA COMMUNITY WITH A
                             SHARED FUTURE FOR THE NEW ERA

addition and job creation."China supports Africa in strengthening trade integration, and will give continued support
to the"development of the AfCFTA and the application of Pan-African Payment and Settlement System. China will
continue to support African countries in promoting African products through such platforms including the China
International Import Expo and China-Africa Economic and Trade Expo, and welcome African countries making
better use of "green lanes""for African agricultural exports to China. China is ready to negotiate and sign the
framework agreement of China-Africa Economic Partnership for Shared Development with interested African
countries, work for more flexible and practical trade and investment liberalization arrangements,"and seize the
initiative by opening itself wider to African countries, so as to provide long-term, stable and predictable institutional
safeguard for economic and trade cooperation between China and Africa. China will"open its market wider to the
least developed countries including those in Africa and encourage Chinese businesses to increase their"direct
investment in"Africa.

15."We will enhance China-Africa cooperation in investment sector, promote coordination on industrial and supply
chains between China and Africa, increase the capacities"of both sides"to produce and export high value-added
products, support our companies in utilizing mutually beneficial cooperation"in various forms, encourage our
financial institutions to strengthen cooperation and expand bilateral local currency settlement and diversify foreign
exchange reserves."China supports the building of"platforms at subnational level for economic and trade
exchanges with Africa, promotes the coordinated development between its subnational industrial parks and
Chinese economic and trade cooperation zones in Africa, and advances the building of corridors to Africa from"its
central and western regions. China encourages Chinese"companies"to increase"investment in Africa and employ
local labor force, fully respect international law, local laws and regulations, customs and religious beliefs,
and"fulfill"their social responsibilities. China supports localized production"and processing"in Africa to help African
countries achieve self-generated sustainable development. China is ready to sign and implement bilateral
investment"promotion and facilitation"agreements with African countries, so as to provide a stable, fair and
enabling"business"environment for Chinese and African businesses, and safeguard the safety, security and
legitimate rights and interests of personnel, projects and institutions of the two sides. China supports the
development of African SMEs and encourages"Africa"to make good use of the Special Loan for the Development of
African SMEs. The two sides commend the Alliance of Chinese business in Africa for Social Responsibilities
(ACBASR) for implementing the initiative of "100 companies in 1,000 villages," and guiding Chinese businesses in
Africa to fulfill their social responsibilities.

16."We take"very seriously Africa's concern over development"financing and strongly call on international financial
institutions to channel more funding to"African countries"and other developing countries, improve the approval
procedures for the provision of funding to African countries, and enhance the accessibility"and fairness of financing
for Africa. China will continue providing support to African financial institutions. Africa appreciates the important
contribution China has made to debt treatment of African countries, including case-by-case debt treatment under
the Common Framework for Debt Treatment beyond the DSSI and the transfer of US$10 billion in Special Drawing
Rights from the IMF"to African countries. We call on international financial institutions and commercial creditors to
participate in debt treatment of African countries in line with the principle of joint action and fair burden-sharing and
work together to help African countries address"this key issue. Under the framework, it is necessary to increase
support for Africa and other developing countries and increase long-term affordable financing to to provide
safeguards to"their development. We reaffirm that the sovereign credit rating of developing economies including
African countries by some international institutions will affect their borrowing costs and should be more objective
and transparent. We encourage the creation of an African rating agency, within the framework of the AU and with
the support of the African Development Bank. The agency aims to establish a new evaluation system which takes
into account the specificities of African economies. We call for reforms of multilateral development banks and
concrete measures from them to provide complementary development financing within the scope of their mandate,
including more subsidies, concessional financing and new financing instruments that meet the needs of African
countries so as to help developing countries including African countries realize sustainable development goals.

III"The GDI:"Building a Strategic Framework for the Joint Action of China and Africa for Development

                                                                             Page 6 of 8
  BEIJING DECLARATION ON JOINTLY BUILDING AN ALL-WEATHER CHINA-AFRICA COMMUNITY WITH A
                             SHARED FUTURE FOR THE NEW ERA

17."We will work together to implement the GDI, actively engage in cooperation under the Initiative, and pursue
high-quality partnership."Africa appreciates the acts China proposed for cooperation with Africa under the
framework of the GDI, and its efforts to help African countries increase food production. Africa encourages China to
increase its investment in Africa's non-agricultural sector and deepen technological cooperation. We welcome the
Group of Friends of the GDI"and the Global Development Promotion Center Network"for encouraging"the
international community to focus on"key issues of"development"to accelerate the implementation of the U.N. 2030
Sustainable Development Goals, and"working for the Summit of the Future"of the U.N."to achieve success and take
the concerns of developing countries seriously."We welcome the establishment of the China-Africa"(Ethiopia)-
UNIDO"Center of Excellence"with an aim to promote economic development of the Global South countries.

18."We will jointly implement the important common understandings reached at the high-level meeting
themed""Industrialization, Agricultural Modernization"and Green Development: the Road to Modernization.""African
countries commend the Initiative on Supporting Africa's Industrialization, the Plan for China Supporting Africa's
Agricultural Modernization, and the Plan for China-Africa Cooperation on Talent Development issued"by China"at
the China-Africa Leader's Dialogue"in 2023, and believe these measures meet"the priority needs for"African
integration and development.

19."We support the role of the China-Africa Environmental Cooperation Center,"the China-Africa Marine Science
and Blue Economy Cooperation Center"and"the China-Africa Geosciences Cooperation Center in promoting the
implementation of projects such as the China-Africa Green Envoys Program,"the China-Africa Green Innovation
Program"and the Africa Solar Belt Program. We welcome the positive role of"the China-African"Union Energy
Partnership, and China will support African countries in better utilizing solar, hydro,"wind and other sources of
renewable energy and will further expand investment"in Africa"in"energy-efficient technologies, new and high-tech
industries, green and low-carbon industries"and other"low-emission projects to help African countries improve their
energy mix and"industrial structure, and develop green hydrogen and nuclear energy. China supports the
operationalization"of the AUDA-NEPAD Agency Center on Climate Resilience and Adaptation.

20."To seize the historic opportunity of the new round of scientific and technological revolution and industrial
transformation, China will work with Africa to accelerate the development of new quality productive forces, jointly
boost innovation and market application of scientific and technological advances, and push forward full integration
of digital and real"economies. We will jointly improve global governance of science and technology and build
an"inclusive,"open, fair, just and nondiscriminatory environment for the development of science and technology. We
emphasize that the peaceful use of technology is an inalienable right conferred by international law on all countries,
and support the U.N. General Assembly resolution entitled "Promoting International Cooperation on Peaceful Uses
in the Context of International Security" to ensure that developing countries fully enjoy the right to the peaceful use
of science and technology. We commend the U.N. General Assembly for adopting"by consensus"the resolution
entitled "Enhancing International Cooperation on Capacity-Building of Artificial Intelligence." The African side
welcomes China's Global AI Governance Initiative and Global Initiative on Data Security, and appreciates China's
efforts to promote the rights of developing countries in the global governance of artificial intelligence"(AI), the
Internet, and data. China and Africa agree to join hands to halt abuses of AI through adoption of measures
including the establishment of national code of conduct and expansion of digital literacy. We believe it is important
to place equal emphasis on development and security, further bridge the AI divide and the digital divide, jointly fend
off risks, and explore the formation of relevant international governance frameworks with the U.N. as the main
channel."We welcome the Shanghai Declaration on Global AI Governance adopted at the World AI Conference and
High-Level Meeting on Global AI Governance held in July 2024"in Shanghai. We welcome the African Consensus
Declaration on Artificial Intelligence adopted at the High-Level Forum on Artificial Intelligence held in
June"2024"in"Rabat.

IV The GSI:"Providing Strong Impetus for the Joint Action of China and Africa for"Maintaining"International Peace
and Security

21."We will"stay committed to the vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security, work
together to implement the GSI, and carry out early cooperation under"the Initiative."We will work together to

                                                                             Page 7 of 8
  BEIJING DECLARATION ON JOINTLY BUILDING AN ALL-WEATHER CHINA-AFRICA COMMUNITY WITH A
                             SHARED FUTURE FOR THE NEW ERA

implement the consensus reached at the high-level meeting"themed""Building a Common Future of"Lasting Peace
and Universal Security and Providing Strong Safeguards"for Modernization." We stick to"solving African issues in
the African way"and will jointly"implement the "Silencing the Guns in Africa""initiative."China will actively participate
in the mediation of regional hotspot issues when requested by Africa to make active contributions"to peace and
stability in Africa.

We view the African Peace and Security Architecture as a strong and ideal normative framework for addressing
peace and security challenges and threats faced by"the African continent, and call on the international community
to support this framework."Africa appreciates China's proposal of the Outlook on Peace and Development in the
Horn of Africa. We reiterate our readiness to enhance coordination on African peace and security affairs at the U.N.
Security Council level and safeguard our common interests. We reiterate"the importance of peacekeeping"and the
role that"U.N. peacekeeping operations play in safeguarding peace and security"in Africa and worldwide. China
supports U.N. funding for Africa's independent peace operations"pursuant to U.N. Security Council Resolution
2719."We"commend Africa's efforts to combat the growing scourge of terrorism in Africa, particularly in the Horn of
Africa and the Sahel, and call for the channeling of more global counterterrorism resources to developing countries
to help African countries, particularly those affected, enhance their counterterrorism capacity building. We reaffirm
our commitment to tackle emerging maritime security challenges facing African littoral states, and combat
transnational organized crimes such as drugs, weapons and human trafficking. China supports the initiative of
AUDA-NEPAD to develop a program focused on the peace-security-development tripartite nexus, and will support
the AU Center for Post-Conflict Reconstruction and Development in the implementation of these programs.

22."We are"gravely concerned about the serious humanitarian disaster in the Gaza Strip caused by the current
Palestinian-Israeli conflict and its negative impact on global security, and call for earnest implementation of"the
relevant resolutions of the U.N. Security Council and the U.N. General Assembly and immediate ceasefire and end
of"the fighting. China commends Africa's important role in working for an end"to the conflict in Gaza, including
efforts to reach a cessation of hostilities, realize release of hostages and increase the provision and distribution of
humanitarian aid. Africa commends China's great efforts in supporting the just cause of the Palestinian people. We
reiterate the crucial importance of achieving a comprehensive settlement on the basis of the two-State solution, and
support the establishment of an independent State of Palestine that enjoys full sovereignty based on the 1967
borders and with East Jerusalem as its capital, based on which Israel and Palestine can live side by side in peace.
We call for supporting UNRWA in upholding its mandate to avert the humanitarian, political and security risks that
would result from any interruption or suspension of its work. We support all efforts conducive to the peaceful
resolution of the Ukraine crisis. We call on the international community to not decrease support and input to Africa
because of the Palestinian-Israeli conflict and the Ukraine crisis, and to actively support African countries in
addressing food insecurity, climate change, energy crisis and other global challenges.

V"The GCI:"Injecting Vitality into the Joint Action of China and Africa for"Deepening"Dialogue Among Cultures and
Civilizations

23. We stand ready to implement the GCI, enhance exchanges among civilizations, and forge closer bonds
between our peoples. Africa speaks highly of the resolution entitled "International Day for Dialogue among
Civilizations""proposed by China at the U.N., and will work with China to advocate respect for the diversity of
civilizations, champion humanity's common values, value the inheritance and innovation of civilizations, and actively
promote people-to-people exchanges and cooperation. China highly commends the AU's launch of the year of
education under"the theme""Educate an African Fit for the 21st Century: Building Resilient Education Systems for
Increased Access to Inclusive, Lifelong, Quality and Relevant Learning in Africa""in 2024 and supports Africa in
realizing the modernization of education through the Plan for China-Africa Cooperation on Talent
Development."China encourages its companies to provide their African employees with more opportunities of
training and education with diplomas. China and Africa encourage lifelong learning, and will continue to enhance
cooperation"on capacity building including technology transfer and education and training, and jointly cultivate
talents in all professions that are capable of advancing the modernization of governance capacity, boosting
economic and social development, enhancing the efficiency of scientific and technological innovation, and
improving people's well-being. We will further expand exchanges and cooperation in areas including education,

                                                                             Page 8 of 8
  BEIJING DECLARATION ON JOINTLY BUILDING AN ALL-WEATHER CHINA-AFRICA COMMUNITY WITH A
                             SHARED FUTURE FOR THE NEW ERA

science and technology, health, tourism, sports, youth, women, think tanks, media and culture, so as to cement
public support for the friendship between China and Africa. China supports the hosting of the 2026 Summer Youth
Olympic Games in Dakar. China and Africa will strengthen personnel exchanges in areas such as science,
education, trade, culture and tourism.

24."We commend Chinese and African scholars for jointly issuing the Africa-China Dar es Salaam Consensus,
which puts forward constructive ideas on how to address current global challenges and forges consensus on
visions and thinking between China and Africa. We support Chinese and African think tanks in enhancing
exchanges and cooperation and sharing development experience. We recognize cultural cooperation as a major
lever for strengthening dialogue and mutual understanding of the diverse civilizations and cultures. We encourage
the fostering of friendly relations between Chinese and African cultural institutions to enhance cultural exchanges at
the subnational level and among peoples.

VI"FOCAC: Review and Outlook

25."Since its establishment in 2000, FOCAC has focused on realizing common prosperity and sustainable
development for the peoples of China and Africa. Its institutional building has been improved, and practical
cooperation under the Forum has delivered remarkable outcomes. It has become an efficient and unique platform
for South-South cooperation that offers reference and a forerunner of Africa's cooperation with the rest of the world.
We highly commend the fruitful outcomes in the follow-up implementation of the nine programs proposed at the
Eighth FOCAC Ministerial Conference in 2021, the Dakar Action Plan (2022-2024) of FOCAC, the China-Africa
Cooperation Vision 2035, and the Declaration on China-Africa Cooperation on Combating Climate Change, which
has served to"advance"high-quality development of China-Africa cooperation.

26."We commend the Ministers participating in the Ninth FOCAC Ministerial Conference for their dedicated efforts
and outstanding work."In the spirit of this Declaration, the Beijing Action Plan (2025-2027) of FOCAC"has
been"adopted, and both sides will work closely for its consistent"and full implementation.

27."We express gratitude to H.E. President Xi Jinping of the People's Republic of China and H.E. President
Bassirou Diomaye Faye"of the Republic of Senegal for co-chairing the 2024 Beijing Summit of FOCAC.

28."We express gratitude to the Republic of Senegal for the contribution it has made to FOCAC's development and
China-Africa relations during its co-chairmanship from 2018 to 2024.

29."We express gratitude to the government and people of the People's Republic of China for the warm hospitality
and excellent facilitation during the 2024 Beijing Summit of FOCAC.

30."We welcome the Republic of the Congo as the co-chair of FOCAC from 2024 to 2027 and the Republic of
Equatorial Guinea as the co-chair from 2027 to 2030. The 10th FOCAC Ministerial Conference will be held in the
Republic of the Congo in 2027."


Load-Date: September 5, 2024


  
