

                                                                                                        Page 1 of 2
                                      ITRI's Technology Camp Empowers Young Minds




                       ITRI's Technology Camp Empowers Young Minds
                                                           PR Newswire
                                        September 12, 2024 Thursday 11:38 PM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 646 words
Dateline: HSINCHU, Sept. 12, 2024

Body


PR NewswireHSINCHU, Sept. 12, 2024 /PRNewswire/ -- The Industrial Technology Research Institute (ITRI)
hosted a technology camp for children in Hualien this summer, in collaboration with the American Institute in Taiwan
(AIT), the Hualien County Government, the Tzu Chi Charity Foundation, and Tzu Chi University. Themed "AI Magic:
Protecting Our Homes," the event reflected on the earthquake that struck Hualien in April and emphasized the
importance of technology in disaster prevention and detection. It offered a unique experience for disadvantaged,
indigenous, and new immigrant children to discover the wonders of technology. Participants visited ITRI's OMEGA
ZONE to engage with technological applications such as Gen AI image recognition and drones, and to learn how
technology can aid in responding to natural disasters like earthquakes.

 This is the 13th consecutive year that ITRI has hosted the technology camp for children. The camp aims to
translate innovative technologies into accessible learning materials and inspire young minds through fun activities.
Ta-An Ho, ITRI Vice President, Chief Sustainability Officer, and Public Welfare Committee Chairman, emphasized
ITRI's ongoing commitment to popular science education for underprivileged children. "In alignment with the United
Nations' Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), particularly SDG 4 on Quality Education, ITRI ensures that
children from disadvantaged groups have equal access to technology knowledge and skills," she said. Building on
last year's success, ITRI and AIT once again collaborated to bring STEM education to eastern Taiwan through
technology camps. This partnership seeks to spark children's interest in science and technology. Shu-Min Weng,
Director of the Hualien County Government Department of Education, praised the volunteers for guiding children
through hands-on activities and interactive experiences that demonstrated real-life applications of their
knowledge.The Tzu Chi Foundation, known for its educational initiatives in rural areas, has helped students in
Hualien and Taitung broaden their horizons. Ingrid Y. Liu, President of Tzu Chi University, stated that the university
will collaborate with ITRI in the future to train local teachers and volunteers, enhancing their teaching
capabilities.This year's camp program featured activities such as flying AI-assisted drones, creating artworks
through AI interactions, and designing pressure-resistant building or bridge structures. Through the tasks
integrating interdisciplinary knowledge in AI, engineering, art, and mathematics, students were encouraged to use
creativity and logical thinking to solve problems and find inspiration about future technology.About ITRIIndustrial
Technology Research Institute (ITRI) is one of the world's leading technology R&D institutions aiming to innovate a
better future for society. Founded in 1973, ITRI has played a vital role in transforming Taiwan's industries from
labor-intensive into innovation-driven. To address market needs and global trends, it has launched its 2030
Technology Strategy & Roadmap and focuses on innovation development in Smart Living, Quality Health, and
Sustainable Environment. It also strives to strengthen Intelligentization Enabling Technology to support diversified

                                                                                                Page 2 of 2
                               ITRI's Technology Camp Empowers Young Minds

applications.Over the years, ITRI has been dedicated to incubating startups and spinoffs, including well-known
names such as UMC and TSMC. In addition to its headquarters in Taiwan, ITRI has branch offices in the U.S.,
Europe, and Japan in an effort to extend its R&D scope and promote international cooperation across the globe.
For more information, please visithttps://www.itri.org/eng.           View original content to download
multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/itris-technology-camp-empowers-young-minds-
302247397.htmlSOURCE Industrial Technology Research Institute


Load-Date: September 12, 2024


  
