

                                                                                                         Page 1 of 4
                SDG DIGITAL: SOLUTIONS AND COMMITMENTS FOR EVERYONE, EVERYWHERE




        SDG DIGITAL: SOLUTIONS AND COMMITMENTS FOR EVERYONE,
                             EVERYWHERE
                                                 States News Service
                                            September 24, 2024 Tuesday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 1419 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: GENEVA

Body


The following information was released by the International Telecommunication Union:

Government ministers, youth activists, tech leaders, policy experts and global changemakers came together at UN
Headquarters on 20-21September to share insights and perspectives on digital technologies as a key factor
shaping humanity's future.

SDG Digital 2024 organized by the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) and the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) formed a key part of the Summit of the Future (SoF) Action Days preceding the
UN Summit of the Future.

SDG Digital, initiated last year, is a cornerstone of ongoing efforts to leverage digital innovation to help achieve the
UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).

With only 17% of SDG targets currently on track, there is an urgent need for scalable solutions, increased
investments and strong public-private partnerships. However, as illustrated throughout SDG Digital, digital
technologies can accelerate development, and in some cases help countries facing difficult socio-economic
challenges leapfrog ahead.

Several key takeaways and commitments emerged from SDG Digital2024.

People from 148 countries shared their vision of an inclusive digital future.

ITU and UNDP, with the support of UN Volunteers, launched a global campaign to capture the essence of what a
digital future means for both people and planet.

Through social media and an online survey, we sought to engage people in the conversation. The goal? To bring
the voices of the world into the discussions happening at the UN, and to highlight the crucial role of digital
technologies in shaping our shared future.

                                                                                                       Page 2 of 4
              SDG DIGITAL: SOLUTIONS AND COMMITMENTS FOR EVERYONE, EVERYWHERE

Respondents across 148countries shared their thoughts, answering one simple, but profound question: "What is
your vision of a digital future for all"?

Every region contributed to the discussion, reinforcing the wish among people around the world to create a better
future that responsibly harnesses digital technologies. Yet distinct regional priorities emerged. In Africa and Asia-
Pacific, people envisaged a sustainable future for all, while in the Commonwealth and Independent States,
respondents highlighted the need for meaningful connectivity.

Empowering youth is critical to drive sustainable digital development.

Kicking off on 20September, the first SoF Action Day centred on youth-led and inclusive digital futures.

As digital and AI technologies rapidly advance, young people will have to navigate increasingly complex challenges
be it online safety, security and privacy, digital literacy, and/or the mental health consequences of social media.

Despite these hurdles, young people are using their creativity and technology to drive meaningful social change.

In the session "YouthLead: Shaping an Inclusive Digital Future for All", young leaders advocated for actions and
policies that promote equitable access to digital resources.

Melissa Munoz Suro, a member of the ITU Secretary-General's Youth Advisory Board, shared her experience: "We
launched initiatives like Semillero Digital, where we are turning 100 young people who were neither studying nor
working into skilled developers, ready to shape the future of AI in the Dominican Republic."

The discussion also revealed a paradox in policymaking. Youth are often excluded from governance roles related to
AI safety despite the direct impact on their futures. Still, there are efforts underway to empower young leaders.
Mr.OrmanBangura, Minister of Youth, Sierra Leone, for example, shared how his youth-filled cabinet is working to
bridge the digital divide.

Digital technologies can accelerate humanity's progress towards a greener, more sustainable and more inclusive
future.

A broader coalition of stakeholders gathered around "A Digital Future for All" on the second SoF Action Day on
21September. There was a clear consensus on two points:

Digital technologies are critical to accelerate the SDGs, particularly for developing countries.

Global digital development must be universal, affordable, inclusive, meaningful, sustainable and prosperous to
ensure a more sustainable future for all.

The "Hope of Digital" segment of SDG Digital featured 17innovative solutions exemplifying how digital technologies
are transforming lives and livelihoods.

Among the highlights:

The UN Financial Gateway, a platform developed by UNHCR, facilitates financial transactions for refugees and
could enable potential efficiency gains of up to USD 60 million per year.

WIPO's Technology and Innovation Support Centers help local entrepreneurs obtain patent protection and assist
them with searching over 100 million patent applications from around the world.

The Digital Cooperation Organization's new Digital Economy Navigator, launched at SDG Digital on 21September,
enables countries to better navigate the paths to digital economy maturity.

Strengthening global digital cooperation and investments in digital public infrastructure can ensure sustainability
and prosperity for all.

                                                                                                        Page 3 of 4
              SDG DIGITAL: SOLUTIONS AND COMMITMENTS FOR EVERYONE, EVERYWHERE

H.E. Lazarus Chakwera, President of Malawi, shares his nation's experience implementing digital public
infrastructure.

SDG Digital also emphasized the need for global digital cooperation and investments to promote sustainability and
shared prosperity. A key focus of global and in-country collaboration has been around digital public infrastructure
(DPI).

DPI is the backbone of modern digital interactions, encompassing digital identity platforms, payment gateways and
data exchange systems. These can empower people, businesses and governments to connect and thrive in a
digital age.

Countries are working to design and implement safe and inclusive DPI, ensuring the rights of people are respected
and preserved. In Malawi, for instance, 97% of residents have a legal digital ID to access services. This adoption
has helped the Government to save USD43million in annual payments that were previously made to 'ghost'
beneficiaries.

The same is true in Finland, where the X-Road data ecosystem offers over 800public digital services and has
scaled as a public good to another 24countries.

With a commitment to safeguards in the Brazilian Digital Government Strategy, the Rural Environment Registry is
also helping to achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement by reforesting 12million hectares and connecting
stakeholders and infrastructure across natural resources.

SDG Digital unlocked USD 1.05 billion for investments in connectivity, infrastructure and skills.

SDG Digital brought a surge of new investment pledges aimed at connecting the hardest-to-reach communities
worldwide.

Notable pledges under the ITU-led Partner2Connect Digital Coalition included:

Anatel, the Brazilian National Telecommunications Agency, pledged to provide 5G connectivity to schools in
Brazilto enable quality education forall.

NIGCOMSAT, which owns and operates Nigerian communications satellite systems, pledged to provide
connectivity for 774local government secretariats in Nigeria, enhancing internet access across the country, and
enabling the provision of government digital services.

The Global Esports Federation, which promotes the credibility, legitimacy and prestige of esports, pledged to make
digital skills development, inclusion, connectivity and youth empowerment a part of its Gaming and Esports
Acceleration Programme.

eand, a global technology group, pledged to strengthen resilience in disaster-affected areas, capacity building,
digital economy, women entrepreneurship and health.

NTIA, the National Telecommunications and Information Administration of the United States, pledged to support
African Women Digital Leaders Training.

The Partner2Connect Digital Coalition has mobilized USD52.14billion worth of commitments to date. It aims to
reach USD100billion in commitments by2026.

Building on the momentum of SDG Digital, the global community pushes for an inclusive digital future at Summit of
the Future and beyond.

The weekend demonstrated a groundswell of action and ideas aimed at building a better digital future.

SDG Digital and the associated digital track set the stage for intensive discussions on technologies at the Summit of
the Future on 22-23September, followed by the High-Level Week (24-28September) at the UN General Assembly.

                                                                                                Page 4 of 4
             SDG DIGITAL: SOLUTIONS AND COMMITMENTS FOR EVERYONE, EVERYWHERE

However, the work does not stop there. Beyond the High-level Week, UN agencies are committed to ensuring that
technologies like artificial intelligence (AI) are used for the benefit of humanity.

SDG Digital emphasized that together, we can create a digital future that is universal, inclusive, meaningful,
sustainable and prosperous.


Load-Date: September 24, 2024


  
