

                                                                                                     Page 1 of 3
        Verizon transforms student learning this school year: new innovation labs, STEM workshops and AR app




 Verizon transforms student learning this school year: new innovation labs,
                       STEM workshops and AR app
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                           September 17, 2024 Tuesday 6:00 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: PRODUCT / SERVICES ANNOUNCEMENT
Length: 1039 words

Body

What you need to know:
    •     Verizon Innovative Learning, Verizon’s premier education initiative, announces the opening of 18 new
          Verizon Innovative Learning Labs this school year, bringing the total number of Labs nationwide to 161.
          Many of these state-of-the-art Labs in Title 1 middle schools have also been outfitted with Verizon’s 5G
          network.
    •     Freely available for all on verizon.com/learning, the new Verizon Innovative Learning Lab: STEM
          Exploration augmented reality (AR) app gives students the opportunity to work with a group of scientists to
          solve an environmental disaster.
    •     This Fall, the Verizon Innovative Learning STEM Achievers program is offering full-day workshops for
          middle schoolers at 44 HBCUs, HSIs and community colleges, including campus tours for parents and
          students. For more information, visit: https://verizon.nacce.com/

BASKING RIDGE, N.J., Sept. 17, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Verizon Innovative Learning announces the
opening of 18 new Verizon Innovative Learning Labs, a new augmented reality app to make the Lab experience
accessible to students nationwide, and free STEM workshops for middle school students on college campuses
across the country.

Donna Epps, Verizon’s Chief Responsible Business Officer, said, “Through our flagship education initiative, Verizon
Innovative Learning, we are committed to equipping students and educators with the tools they need to thrive in a
digital world. As technology evolves and expands, so too does Verizon Innovative Learning. Through our new
offerings, including new state-of-the-art Labs with connectivity to Verizon’s 5G network, free STEM workshops on
college campuses and a new web-based AR app, we are working with our nonprofit partners to utilize next-gen

                                                                                                     Page 2 of 3
        Verizon transforms student learning this school year: new innovation labs, STEM workshops and AR app

technology and curriculum to ensure educators and students not only have access to technology but can also use it
effectively.”

18 new Verizon Innovative Learning Labs launching this school year

Verizon Innovative Learning, with its nonprofit partners, is launching 18 new Verizon Innovative Learning Labs in
Title I middle schools, bringing the total number of Labs across the country to 161. Labs are opening in: Atlanta,
GA; Bristol Township, PA; Compton, CA; Fulton County, GA; Glendale, CA; Irving, TX, Jefferson County, KY; Little
Rock, AK; Polk County, TN; Saint Louis, MO; San Antonio, TX; Wichita, KS; and Winston-Salem, NC.

Select Labs will host ribbon-cutting ceremonies. Media are encouraged to attend to tour the space and technology,
learn about the curriculum and interact with students and teachers.

More about the Verizon Innovative Learning Lab program:
    •     The Lab program combines emerging technology with an innovative, project-based curriculum, created in
          partnership with the J. Orin Edson Entrepreneurship + Innovation Institute at Arizona State University, to
          spark real-world problem solving, all in a custom-designed, experiential learning space within the school’s
          campus. The Lab program provides a full space transformation created by the nonprofit Heart of America.
    •     Verizon outfits its 5G connectivity in select Labs to enable immersive learning at scale and to meet the
          demands of future technology. The 5G connectivity is now in over 70 Title I schools.
    •     The Verizon Innovative Learning Lab curriculum offers tech-focused courses such as immersive media
          (AR/VR), 3D printing, AI and more, and is freely available to all educators via Verizon Innovative Learning
          HQ.
    •     Third-party surveys show that 92% of students are more engaged in school after participating in the Lab
          program. Teachers from the Lab program receive ongoing professional development from Arizona State
          University.

Verizon Innovative Learning launches new, free web-based augmented reality app

Verizon Innovative Learning HQ now offers a new, free, web-based application to help bring the Lab experience to
all educators and students. Five other AR learning applications are also available on Verizon Innovative Learning
HQ.

Through the new Verizon Innovative Learning Lab: STEM Exploration augmented reality app, students can take on
the role of an oceanographer, chemist and microbiologist, and leverage atomic structures, microorganisms and
bioremediation to protect a vibrant island ecosystem.

Verizon Innovative Learning launching free STEM workshops on college campuses

This Fall, the Verizon Innovative Learning STEM Achievers summer program will host a full-day workshop at 44
HBCUs, HSIs and community colleges in 27 states and Washington, DC. Programming is open to middle school
students and includes campus tours for parents and students.

In the workshop, students will have access to emerging technology from the Labs and will learn about design
thinking, 3D printing, augmented reality and social entrepreneurship. Third-party surveys show that, following the
program, 83% of students said they can use STEM to impact issues affecting their communities, nation and the
world. To register, visit here.

Verizon Innovative Learning STEM Achievers, in partnership with the National Association of Community College
Entrepreneurship (NACCE), provides a free STEM-intensive summer program to middle school students in under-
resourced communities to explore STEM subjects, learn problem-solving skills and gain exposure to career
opportunities in technology fields. This most recent summer, the program supported 6,500 students in 44 locations.

                                                                                                  Page 3 of 3
     Verizon transforms student learning this school year: new innovation labs, STEM workshops and AR app

Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE, Nasdaq: VZ) powers and empowers how its millions of customers live, work
and play, delivering on their demand for mobility, reliable network connectivity and security. Headquartered in New
York City, serving countries worldwide and nearly all of the Fortune 500, Verizon generated revenues of $134.0
billion in 2023. Verizon’s world-class team never stops innovating to meet customers where they are today and
equip them for the needs of tomorrow. For more, visit verizon.com or find a retail location at verizon.com/stores.

VERIZON’S ONLINE MEDIA CENTER: News releases, stories, media contacts and other resources are available
at verizon.com/news. News releases are also available through an RSS feed. To subscribe, visit
www.verizon.com/about/rss-feeds/.

Media contact: Hope Arcuri Armanushope.arcuri.armanus@verizon.com 336-813-4673


Load-Date: September 17, 2024


  
