

                                                                                            Page 1 of 2
    Operation HOPE Founder, Chairman and CEO John Hope Bryant Makes the Case for Economic Inclusion at
                        Congressional Black Caucus Annual Legislative Conference




 Operation HOPE Founder, Chairman and CEO John Hope Bryant Makes the
   Case for Economic Inclusion at Congressional Black Caucus Annual
                        Legislative Conference
                                                           PR Newswire
                                         September 16, 2024 Monday 8:00 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 529 words
Dateline: WASHINGTON, Sept. 16, 2024

Body


PR NewswireLongtime financial literacy advocate joins CBC Chairman Rep. Steven Horsford, Ariel Investments Co-
CEO John Rogers, Fearless Fund founder Arian Simone, and Don Lemon for a National Town Hall, in addition to
other public appearances and White House eventsWASHINGTON, Sept. 16, 2024 /PRNewswire/ -- Operation
HOPE Founder, Chairman, and CEO John Hope Bryant had a full agenda at the Congressional Black Caucus
(CBC) 2024 Annual Legislative Conference, where he made the case for broader economic inclusion through a
series of public appearances and closed-door meetings. Mr. Bryant was a featured speaker Thursday, September
12, 2024, at the CBC National Town Hall,Pathways to Prosperity: Advancing Democracy and Black Economic
Opportunity,led by Congressional Black Caucus Chairman Rep. Steven Horsford. The session can be viewed in its
entiretyHERE.

 Immediately following the Town Hall, Mr. Bryant joined U.S. Senator Laphonza Butler for a robust conversation
titled"AI and Economic Empowerment in Black Communities",moderated by ACLU President Deborah
Archer.On Friday, September 13, 2024, Mr. Bryant attended a White House brunch as the guest of President
Joseph R. Biden and First Lady Dr. Jill Biden celebrating Black excellence. Mr. Bryant later engaged with White
House officials on how financial literacy can broaden economic participation for all Americans. Earlier in the day,
Mr. Bryant again joined Congressional Black Caucus Chairman Rep. Steven Horsford for a roundtable discussion
on theBlack Wealth and Prosperity Agenda.Mr. Bryant concluded his agenda in the nation's capital with a live
appearance on CNN'sErin Burnett OutFront, where he and Ms. Burnett covered Bryant's proposal for a 40-year
mortgage, and Vice President Harris' proposals to increase homeownership and small business. The full interview
can be seenHERE.About Operation HOPE, Inc.Since 1992, Operation HOPE has been moving America from civil
rights to "silver rights" with the mission of making free enterprise and capitalism work for the underserved—
disrupting poverty for millions of low and moderate-income youth and adults across the nation. Through its
community uplift model, HOPE Inside, which received the 2016 Innovator of the Year recognition by American
Banker magazine, Operation HOPE has served more than 4 million individuals and directed more than $3.2 billion
in economic activity into disenfranchised communities—turning check-cashing customers into banking customers,
renters into homeowners, small business dreamers into small business owners, minimum wage workers into living
wage consumers, and uncertain disaster victims into financially empowered disaster survivors. For more

                                                                                           Page 2 of 2
   Operation HOPE Founder, Chairman and CEO John Hope Bryant Makes the Case for Economic Inclusion at
                       Congressional Black Caucus Annual Legislative Conference

information:OperationHOPE.org.               Follow             the            HOPE               conversation
onTwitter,Facebook,InstagramorLinkedIn.Operation HOPE Contact:Lalohni Campbell, Per Se Media
(404) 593-7145Kevin Boucher, Operation HOPE
 View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/operation-hope-founder-
chairman-and-ceo-john-hope-bryant-makes-the-case-for-economic-inclusion-at-congressional-black-caucus-
annual-legislative-conference-302248581.htmlSOURCE Operation HOPE, Inc.


Load-Date: September 16, 2024


  
