

                                                                           Page 1 of 2
      ALUMNUS TRAVIS KULPA RECEIVES DOCTORAL DISSERTATION AWARD FROM SUPPLY CHAIN
                                        COUNCIL




 ALUMNUS TRAVIS KULPA RECEIVES DOCTORAL DISSERTATION AWARD
                 FROM SUPPLY CHAIN COUNCIL
                                               States News Service
                                           October 16, 2024 Wednesday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 520 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: FAYETTEVILLE, Ark

Body


The following information was released by the University of Arkansas:

The Council of Supply Chain Management Professionals, a logistics and supply chain management professional
organization, awarded Travis Kulpa the 2024 Doctoral Dissertation Award at its Academic Research Symposium on
Sept. 30in Nashville. Kulpa, who received his Ph.D. in business administration with a concentration in supply chain
management from the U of A in May, was honored for his dissertation, titled "How Supply Chains Respond to
Disruptions: Three Essays on Responses to Operational, Geopoliticaland Natural Disaster Disruptions."

"We are immensely proud of our faculty, studentsand alumni for their outstanding contributions to the field of supply
chain management, as recognized by CSCMP at their Academic Research Symposium," said Brian Fugate,
associate dean for graduate programs and research. "Their dedication and innovative research not only reflect the
strength of our J.B. Hunt Transport Department of Supply Chain Management but also reinforce our commitment to
shaping the future of supply chain excellence."

At the symposium, several faculty, doctoral students and alumni of the J.B. Hunt Transport Department of Supply
Chain Management at Walton College were recognized for their academic research, including:

Adriana Rossiter Hofer, associate professor, along with co-authors and U of A alumni Nicol Masorgo, assistant
professor at Oxford University, and Saif Mir, assistant professor at Lehigh University, were runners-up in the 2024
Bernard J. LaLonde Best Paper Award for "You're driving me crazy! How emotions elicited by negative driver
behaviors impact customer outcomes in last mile delivery." Publication: Journal of Business Logistics

Brian FugateandSatabdi Hazarika, doctoral student, along with co-author and U of A alumna Ellie Falcone,
assistant professor at Texas Christian University, were recognized as a Plowman Nominee for their paper "Going
Moral with Going Green: An Investigation of Firm and Supply Base Sustainability Congruence on Firm
Performance."

                                                                          Page 2 of 2
     ALUMNUS TRAVIS KULPA RECEIVES DOCTORAL DISSERTATION AWARD FROM SUPPLY CHAIN
                                       COUNCIL

Finnegan McKinley, doctoral student;John Aloysius, professor and Oren Harris Chair in Logistics; andAdrian
Rossiter Hofer, associate professor;along with alumnaRebekah Brau,assistant professor at Brigham Young
University, were also recognized as a Plowman Nominee for their paper "Using Ai-Based Systems for Supply Chain
Demand Planning: The Effect of Algorithm Performance on User Vigilance."

About the University of Arkansas:As Arkansas' flagship institution, the U of A provides an internationally competitive
education in more than 200 academic programs. Founded in 1871, the U of A contributes more than$3 billion to
Arkansas' economythrough the teaching of new knowledge and skills, entrepreneurship and job development,
discovery through research and creative activity while also providing training for professional disciplines. The
Carnegie Foundation classifies the U of A among the few U.S. colleges and universities with the highest level of
research activity.U.S. News and World Reportranks the U of A among the top public universities in the nation.


Load-Date: October 16, 2024


  
