

                                                                                                        Page 1 of 2
             Prosperity or catastrophe: #Insurance2040 study reveals four possible futures for the industry




     Prosperity or catastrophe: #Insurance2040 study reveals four possible
                            futures for the industry
                                                           PR Newswire
                                       November 13, 2024 Wednesday 10:23 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 1263 words
Dateline: CARY, N.C., Nov. 13, 2024

Body


PR NewswireSAS-sponsored research by Economist Impact suggests global politics and innovation will influence
the insurance sector's fateCARY, N.C., Nov. 13, 2024 /PRNewswire/ -- By 2040, technological innovation driven by
customer centricity could pave the way to greater climate resilience and more personalized offerings by the
insurance industry. Alternatively, insurance could become a luxury afforded only to the wealthiest few. These are
potential paths for the insurance industry, according to a newfuture of insurance studyby Economist Impact and
data and AI leader SAS.What will the #insurance sector look like in 2040? Dive in at SAS.com/insurance2040.
#insurance2040Informed by in-depth desk research and expert interviews, four prospective futures for the sector
emerge inRevealing the paths to 2040: four possible scenarios for insurance.The report is thefirst in a two-
part studyexamining the key factors that will shape the future state of the industry and the role technology could
play in helping insurers navigate change."Our scenarios are not intended to predict the future," said Edwin Saliba,
Senior Analyst at Economist Impact.

"Instead, they explore possible futures for the insurance industry, helping insurers better position themselves to
respond effectively to emerging challenges and seize new opportunities."Per the report, the level of global
cooperation and the pace of technological change will help determine how effectively and equitably the insurance
sector, governments and societies at large address policy challenges like the climate crisis. Each path forward
includes expert recommendations for industry leaders to build resilience and foster agility."There is anon-
zerochance the insurance industry will collapse by 2040 – and that should prompt all insurers to take stock of
growing risks and their overall resilience," said Franklin Manchester, Principal Global Insurance Advisor at SAS.
"Insurers can't price customers out of coverage in flood zones to remain profitable in the climate crisis, certainly not
in perpetuity, and perhaps not for much longer."As the digital revolution plays out in parallel, insurers can
andshouldinvest inresponsible innovationfor a more climate-resilient and prosperous future – or they risk failing
the fundamental value proposition of insurance, which is to protect people."Scenario 1: Isolationism and
unregulated technological growth lead to missed climate targets.Isolationist global politics leads to
accelerating technological evolution, unrestrained by regulatory guardrails or broader global coordination. The
international community falls short of climate targets due to poor global cooperation. Only countries with the most
developed economies can invest in and deploy green technologies (e.g., renewable energy, electric vehicles), while
developing economies and regions suffer.Private, hyper-regionalized insurance creates large disparities in product
offerings and pricing, and the vast insurance protection gap widens as insurers withdraw from high-risk
markets.Scenario 2: Customer centricity drives prevention-focused approaches and climate

                                                                                                      Page 2 of 2
           Prosperity or catastrophe: #Insurance2040 study reveals four possible futures for the industry

transformation.If regulatory efforts and global cooperation succeed in protecting digital identities and data privacy,
new open lines of communication between countries and regions inspire collective advancement in emerging
technologies. Insurers shift from an indemnification to apreventativeapproach across health, home and auto
policies.The democratization of technology enables insurers to offer highly personalized products to new and
existing customers, tailored to their specific risk profiles and preferences.Scenario 3: The effects of climate
change spur climate resilience–for some.Major economies introduce corporate sustainability reporting and
overhaul their national disaster response and recovery policies, with insurers playing a starring role in compliance
by employing risk modeling approaches. Lower- and middle-income economies focus on saving lives and
livelihoods, while in further-developed economies, banks adopt climate risk-adjusted mortgages, and insurers
introduce lower home insurance premiums by encouraging homeowners to retrofit their properties.Where insurers
stop providing coverage, safety regulations and climate-shock-resistant building codes are introduced to prohibit the
development of infrastructure in high-risk zones. Insurers leverage historic data and enhance accuracy and data
availability, bringing real-time environmental monitoring and advanced predictive analytics to the fore.Scenario 4:
Insufficient innovation and no cooperation? Insurers buckle.Refusal of governments and businesses to
collaborate on technology development and regulation exacerbates global conflict and undermines efforts to
mitigate climate change. The full potential ofAIfails to materialize, and the insurance industry falls behind in
adapting to a world beset by increasingly catastrophic natural disasters. The protection gap reaches historic levels,
disproportionately affecting emerging markets, where many are left without coverage and facing significant public
resources constraints.As the insurance industry eventually falters, collective risk pools in local communities gain
momentum to cope with regionally specific concerns.Preparing for 2040"Even the boldest actuaries, in their most
ambitious risk models, could hardly have imagined the skyrocketing frequency and severity of loss events we've
experienced in recent years," said Thorsten Hein, Insurance Lead in Risk, Fraud and Compliance Solutions at SAS.
"The industry is on an alarming trajectory."Insurers are facing increasingly complex unknowns much faster than
they've ever had to in the past, and it's pushing their actuarial limits. AI will become an indispensable tool in helping
insurers survive and thrive on the path to 2040 – AI guided byhuman intelligencethat knows how to use its
capabilities optimally and responsibly for the benefit of the company and the protection of its customers."SAS will
deliver the second installment of this two-part #Insurance2040 study in early 2025. In the meantime, download the
first report atsas.com/insurance2040– and learn more about how data and AI is helping shape the sector's future
today atsas.com/insurance.About Economist Impact

Economist Impact combines the rigor of a think-tank with the creativity of a media brand to engage a globally
influential audience. We partner with corporations, foundations, NGOs and governments across big themes
including sustainability, health and the changing shape of globalization to catalyze change and enable progress.
We bring a 75-year track record of evidence-based policy research across 205 countries. Our global team sheds
light on policy choices through benchmarks, economic and social impact analysis, white papers, forecasting and
scenario modeling.About SASSAS is a global leader in data and AI. With SAS software and industry-specific
solutions, organizations transform data into trusted decisions. SAS gives you THE POWER TO KNOW®.SAS and
all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc.
in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of
their respective companies. Copyright © 2024 SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. View original content to
download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/prosperity-or-catastrophe-insurance2040-study-
reveals-four-possible-futures-for-the-industry-302304272.htmlSOURCE SAS


Load-Date: November 13, 2024


  
