

                                                                                                          Page 1 of 3
             5 things to know for Oct. 8: Hurricane Milton, Immigration, Israel , Cyberattack, Marburg virus




            5 things to know for Oct. 8: Hurricane Milton, Immigration, Israel,
                               Cyberattack, Marburg virus
                                                        CNN Wire
                                          October 8, 2024 Tuesday 10:55 AM GMT



Copyright 2024 Cable News Network All Rights Reserved

Length: 1134 words
Byline: By Alexandra Banner, CNN
Dateline: (CNN)

Body


        (CNN) - As Florida residents brace for another major storm, new estimates reveal Hurricane Helene caused
more than $47 billion in losses for property owners. With many insurance companies raising prices or refusing to
issue policies in disaster-prone areas, several families without coverage are now scrambling to find resources and
assistance.

Here's what else you need to know to Get Up to Speed and On with Your Day.

1. Hurricane Milton

Hurricane Milton, the planet's strongest storm this year, is expected to deliver severe impacts as it barrels toward
Florida. While the storm strengthened to a Category 5 on Monday, forecasts show it will fluctuate in intensity before
ultimately making landfall Wednesday as a Category 3. Milton's dangerous eye and eyewall could come ashore
anywhere from Cedar Key in the north to Naples in the south, possibly in the Tampa or Fort Myers areas. More than
12 million people are under hurricane watches and warnings, and over 8 million are under tropical storm watches.
Many flights in the region have been canceled and a mass exodus is occurring along roads as thousands follow
mandatory evacuation orders ahead of Milton's arrival.

2. Immigration

Former President Donald Trump on Monday suggested undocumented immigrants who commit murder have "bad
genes." Trump's dehumanizing rhetoric is another example of the former president trying to stoke fears about those
in the country illegally. In a radio interview on "The Hugh Hewitt Show," Trump again distorted statistics on
immigration and crime to attack Vice President Kamala Harris as he falsely claimed she was "allowing people to
come through an open border, 13,000 of which were murderers." Separately, Harris discussed immigration in a
wide-ranging "60 Minutes" interview that aired Monday. She maintained migration is a "long-standing problem"
when asked about the Biden administration's approach to immigration policies but refused to answer whether
officials should've cracked down sooner.

3. Israel

                                                                                                        Page 2 of 3
           5 things to know for Oct. 8: Hurricane Milton, Immigration, Israel , Cyberattack, Marburg virus

Israel will "continue to fight," Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu vowed on the anniversary of the October 7
Hamas attacks. A year into the war in Gaza, Israel's goals - including toppling Hamas, returning the hostages in
Gaza to Israel, and returning Israelis displaced by fighting with Hezbollah to their homes - seem far from reach. On
Monday, Israel intercepted dozens of strikes from multiple directions, including projectiles launched from Gaza and
Lebanon. Meanwhile, the Israeli military has issued fresh evacuation orders to residents in Gaza as it ramps up its
military operation in parts of the battered enclave. However, Palestinian residents who spoke with CNN said they
fear there is no safe place to take shelter.

4. Cyberattack

American Water, the largest regulated water and wastewater utility company in the US, announced Monday that it
was the victim of a cyberattack, prompting the firm to pause billing to customers. The New Jersey-based company -
which provides services to more than 14 million people in 14 states and on 18 military installations - said it became
aware of the unauthorized activity on Thursday and immediately took protective steps, including shutting down
certain systems. American Water said staffers were working "around the clock" to investigate the nature and scope
of the attack. The company also said customers will not face late charges while its systems are unavailable.

5. Marburg virus

The CDC announced Monday that health officials will soon start screening travelers from Rwanda to the US for
Marburg virus. There are no confirmed cases of Marburg virus disease - a rare but deadly hemorrhagic disease
similar to Ebola - outside of Rwanda, and officials have said that the current risk to the US is low. However, the
Department of Health and Human Services said the CDC will begin public health entry screening next week in an
effort to reduce the risk of the importation and spread of cases. As of Monday, there have been 56 confirmed cases
of Marburg in Rwanda, with 36 people in isolation and treatment, and 12 deaths, according to the Ministry of Health.
Many of the cases are in health care workers, the CDC says.

BREAKFAST BROWSE

Airline apologizes after R-rated film plays on every screen during Sydney-Tokyo flightFasten your seatbelts
... and cover your eyes? Qantas Airways issued an apology after a crew mistakenly played an explicit R-rated film
on all the aircraft's screens.

Thousands of parrots are flocking to this town in ArgentinaCNN visited an Argentine town invaded by
screeching parrots. Their unwelcome arrival is ruffling feathers among residents.

How to check your blood pressure the right wayCertain arm positions commonly used for blood pressure
checks may lead to inaccurate results. Here's the right way to do it.

Google's search dominance is unwindingGoogle maintains a huge share of American search advertising
revenue but some analysts say Amazon could shake up its dominance of the market.

Chiefs maintain unbeaten start to NFL seasonThe Kansas City Chiefs are celebrating a 5-0 start to the season
after beating the New Orleans Saints on "Monday Night Football."

IN MEMORIAM

Cissy Houston, the two-time Grammy-winning singer and mother of Whitney Houston, died Monday while in
hospice care for Alzheimer's disease. She was 91. An award-winning recording artist, Houston led a successful
career over decades, recording 10 solo albums, four compilation albums, and five collaborative recordings.

TODAY'S NUMBER

                                                                                                        Page 3 of 3
           5 things to know for Oct. 8: Hurricane Milton, Immigration, Israel , Cyberattack, Marburg virus

6That's how many years a US citizen was sentenced to serve in a Russian prison for fighting for Ukraine, according
to state media reports. Russian prosecutors accused the 72-year-old, originally from Michigan, of allegedly joining
Ukrainian forces for monetary compensation.

TODAY'S QUOTE

"Although computers cannot think, machines can now mimic functions such as memory and learning. This year's
laureates in physics have helped make this possible."

- The Nobel Committee, announcing today that the 2024 Nobel Prize in physics has been awarded to John
Hopfield and Geoffrey Hinton for their "foundational discoveries" in artificial intelligence. The prestigious honor,
seen as the pinnacle of scientific achievement, carries a cash award of 11 million Swedish kronor ($1 million).

TODAY'S WEATHER

Check your local forecast here&gt;&gt;&gt;

AND FINALLY ...

HBO documentary may expose Bitcoin creator's secret identityDid you know that one of the richest people in
the world is anonymous? Filmmaker Cullen Hoback embarked on a journey to discover who created Bitcoin, the
first and most valuable cryptocurrency. Learn about the doc here. (HBO, like CNN, is owned by Warner Bros.
Discovery)

        By Alexandra Banner, CNN

TM & © 2024 Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.


Load-Date: November 7, 2024


  
