

                                                                                                        Page 1 of 3
                                  SAS experts foresee government AI crossroads in 2025




                  SAS experts foresee government AI crossroads in 2025
                                                           PR Newswire
                                       November 13, 2024 Wednesday 10:23 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 1322 words
Dateline: CARY, N.C., Nov. 13, 2024

Body


PR NewswireWill AI investments fuel a productivity boom or be overwhelmed by poor data, fraudsters and
regulatory confusion?CARY, N.C., Nov. 13, 2024 /PRNewswire/ --Government AIadoption is expected to rapidly
accelerate in 2025, with 84% of government decision makers saying in a recent global study,Your Journey to a
GenAI Future: A Strategic Path to Success for Government,that their organizations are planning to invest in GenAI
in the next fiscal year. Will these investments spark a new age of productivity and efficiency? Or will the wave of AI
hype crash on the rocks of government red tape, poor data quality and sophisticated crime?

 "Countries that let AI fears guide them will see slower economic growth and reduced competitiveness and
productivity."Government experts from global data and AI and leader SAS shared their thoughts.VisitSAS 2025
Predictionsfor more trends and forecasts.Internal obstacles to effective government AI usage will
persist"2025 will mark a greater gap between the perceived benefits of data and AI, and governments' ability to
benefit from it. There will be more funding for AI initiatives, but agencies will continue to face challenges deriving
value from them due to a lack of digitalization, clear processes and data skills."

- Ensley Tan, Lead for Public Sector Consulting, SAS Asia PacificUnstructured data will be a gold mine for AI
and productivity"Fueled by the need for efficiency and ever dwindling resources, in 2025 governments will begin
tapping unstructured data sources with AI to not only speed up processes but better inform policy and decision
making. The days of throwing bodies at a problem are ending."

- Ian Kramer, Senior Manager, US Health Care Customer Advisory, SASGovernment AI fears and tolerances will
have huge economic impacts"Our world will see the emergence of an 'algorithmic divide' between governments
that embrace AI innovation and those that fear it. Countries that innovate will thrive. Those that let AI fears guide
them will see slower economic growth and reduced competitiveness and productivity."

- Shaun Barry, Global Director, Risk, Fraud & Compliance Solutions, SASGenerative AIalone won't be
enough"Government organizations concerned with the validity of generative AI approaches alone will explore
multi-modal approaches for trustworthy and productive AI. Text analytics will gain prominence as a data quality
solution for enhancing data to be fed into generative AI. This will increase productivity by empowering subject
matter experts, versus replacing them."

- Tom Sabo, Principal Solutions Architect, SASData management and governance will emerge as deciding
factors for trustworthy AI success or failure"It will always be the more mundane part of the AI life cycle, but data

                                                                                                        Page 2 of 3
                              SAS experts foresee government AI crossroads in 2025

quality's importance has never been greater as government agencies strive to avoid squandering AI investments.
The use of trustworthy AI models will require trusted data first, so data management and governance will become
foundational to the 'trustworthy and ethical AI' conversation."

- Mary Anne Hopper, Senior Manager, Management & Advisory Consulting, SASAI safety institutes will bring
(some) order to regulatory chaos"Concerns over patchwork AI regulations from the national to the local level will
persist. However, we will see consistency in responsible AI principles emerge across borders, largely driven by AI
safety institutes in Group of Seven countries and beyond. These institutes will be key to generating the
interoperability needed to support cross-border collaboration and innovation."

- Reggie Townsend, Vice President, Data Ethics, SASAI governance won't just be a risk mitigator"AI
governance will increasingly be seen not just as a necessary risk management practice but as a strategic enabler of
faster innovation and increased productivity. Government agencies with strong AI governance will be able to
execute AI projects with confidence, knowing they are minimizing risks related to bias, regulatory compliance and
data quality. Consistent governance and standardized practices across agencies will also support integration and
collaboration between departments, enabling agencies to leverage shared insights and resources."

-Steven Tiell, Global Head of AI Governance, SASDemocracy will remain threatened with truth buried by
overwhelming information"The rise of the new wave of generative AI and quantum computing marks a watershed
point in history of the level of exposure that governments and citizens have to information. The task of finding truth
whilst protecting our ethical societal values, given this context, becomes vital for the survival of our democracies
and the trust in which citizens will increasingly need to have in our public services."

- Afshin Almassi, Senior Manager, Public Sector, SAS SpainSuccessful operationalization of open source AI
models will require better data governance and enterprise ModelOps processesWith the steady increase of
open source skills in the workforce and a growing inventory of open source AI models, government agencies will
continue to face internal demands to use more open source data and models. But to unlock value in the public
sector, beingopenis not enough – the use of open AI models will require enterprise-grade data governance and
ModelOps processes to ensure the models operate at scale while also ensuring trustworthy and ethical usage that
is aligned with an agency's mission.

- Jared Linck, Principal Solutions Architect, SASThe battle will intensify between AI-empowered investigators
and fraudsters"Generative AI is lowering the bar of entry for fraudsters in all aspects of life. From health care and
social benefits to procurement, the ease and volume of fraudulent activity will dramatically increase. Governments
and industries are going to have to step up their game in the use of the same technologies to handle these
increases."
- Tom Wriggins, Global Lead, Health Care Risk, Fraud & Compliance, SAS"Tax agencies will adopt robust fraud
detection and entity resolution capabilities in 2025 to fight the onslaught of synthetic IDs being created en masse by
fraudsters using GenAI to commit tax and financial fraud."

- Teya Dyan, Principal Industry Consultant, Tax & Revenue Compliance, SASAI will become a crucial part of
protecting people and property"Spurred by historic flooding events and other natural and man-made disasters,
government will increase investment in sensor and real-time applications for infrastructure, disaster management,
energy management and public safety. There is an urgent need to have real-time situational awareness and make
informed, intelligent decisions faster than ever before."

- Katy Salamati, Principal Industry Consultant, IoT & AI, SAS"Coupling advanced analytics and assistive
technologies such as generative AI will have a key role in identifying and mitigating public safety threats and harm
to communities, while increasing productivity by reducing effort spent on repetitive, labor-intensive tasks."

- Steve Shirley, Director, Justice & Public Safety, SASLearn more about how SAS analytics and AI are helping
government agencies face today's challenges athttps://www.sas.com/en_us/industry/government.html.About SAS

SAS is a global leader in data and AI. With SAS software and industry-specific solutions, organizations transform
data into trusted decisions. SAS gives you THE POWER TO KNOW®.SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product

                                                                                                  Page 3 of 3
                             SAS experts foresee government AI crossroads in 2025

or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ®
indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies.
Copyright © 2024 SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.Editorial Contact:Trent Smith
919-531-4726

sas.com/news View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/sas-
experts-foresee-government-ai-crossroads-in-2025-302304313.htmlSOURCE SAS


Load-Date: November 13, 2024


  
