

                                                                                                 Page 1 of 2
    Arcserve Launches UDP 10 to Deliver Enhanced Malware Protection and Improved Virtualization Support for
                        Multi-Cloud Environments Data Resilience Pioneer Provide....




    Arcserve Launches UDP 10 to Deliver Enhanced Malware Protection and
      Improved Virtualization Support for Multi-Cloud Environments; Data
    Resilience Pioneer Provides New Cybersecurity Capabilities and Unveils
                        Future AI-Driven Enhancements
                                                    Business Wire
                                      October 15, 2024 Tuesday 2:00 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 635 words
Dateline: EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn.

Body


Arcserve , the pioneer in unified data resilience solutions, today announces the launch of Arcserve UDP 10 ,
providing customers with an intuitive, flexible, and affordable way to address their critical data security and business
continuity challenges.

Arcserve UDP 10 is a unified data protection solution that offers backup, replication, high availability, and advanced
ransomware detection. UDP 10 is easy to set up, as it seamlessly integrates with major cloud providers like AWS,
Azure, Google Cloud, and Wasabi. With smart deduplication and powerful data compression, UDP 10 is cost-
effective to scale - and as it scales, Arcserve remains the single point of contact for maintenance and support.

"The launch of UDP 10 epitomizes Arcserve's philosophy of providing reliable, innovative, and customer-centric
solutions," said Chris Babel, CEO of Arcserve. "UDP 10 allows businesses of all sizes to operate with peace of
mind when it comes to their data - even as ransomware attacks proliferate around the globe and grow ever more
sophisticated. We are excited to empower our partners and customers with this reliable cyber resilience solution
that is easy to deploy and fast to deliver value."

As IT administrators and data security officers work to enhance data security and streamline their backup and
recovery processes, Arcserve UDP 10 offers a proven, comprehensive, and flexible data protection solution. It
delivers data resiliency across a wide range of platforms, maintains a consistent backup cadence, and accelerates
disaster recovery processes. Key features include:
    •     Enhanced Malware Detection: Assured Security scans the data, both at time of backup and pre-restore, to
          reliably identify clean recovery points and recover to a clean room or production environment.
    •     Flexible Disaster Recovery: Ad-Hoc Virtual Stand-by to Cloud offers high-availability capacity in a cost-
          effective way, ensuring immediate takeover by a virtual machine in case of source machine failure.
    •     Accelerated Data Resiliency: One-to-Many Replication performs simultaneous data replication to multiple
          targets, removing bottlenecks and accelerating Recovery Point availability.

                                                                                                Page 2 of 2
   Arcserve Launches UDP 10 to Deliver Enhanced Malware Protection and Improved Virtualization Support for
                       Multi-Cloud Environments Data Resilience Pioneer Provide....

    •   Versatile Cloud Support: Virtual Standby is now available across Google Cloud Platform, AWS, Azure, and
        Wasabi - all managed directly within the Arcserve interface

"Arcserve UDP 10 provides organizations with a reliable last-line-of-defense in the face of ransomware challenges
that they face in their complex hybrid- and multi-cloud environments," commented Jerome Wendt, CEO & Principal
Data Protection Analyst, DCIG.

The UDP 10 release follows Arcserve's recent updates to its ShadowProtect SPX and ImageManager offerings,
which brought a robust set of new features and enhancements, expanding the platform compatibility and improving
performance. Additionally, as AI gains popularity in data protection, Arcserve is dedicated to bringing new AI-driven
capabilities in the future to analyze data for security risks, detect anomalies in the backup process, predict backup
needs, and further automate workflows.

Click here to learn more and to watch the Arcserve UDP 10 launch event.

About Arcserve

Arcserve is the pioneer in unified data resilience solutions. For over 40 years, nearly 150,000 customers and over
30,000 channel partners across 150 countries have trusted Arcserve to strengthen their data resilience, recover lost
assets, and ensure business continuity. With a unified approach to data protection and recovery, world-class
technical support, and the lowest total cost of ownership, Arcserve helps businesses manage, defend, and-most
importantly-recover their data from any situation. Explore more at arcserve.com and follow @Arcserve on X .

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20241015951539/en/


CONTACT: Media Contact

pr@arcserve.com


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: October 15, 2024


  
