

                                                                                                      Page 1 of 2
                  HERE Expands Partnership with Maxar Intelligence to Scale Automated Mapmaking




     HERE Expands Partnership with Maxar Intelligence to Scale Automated
                               Mapmaking
                                                  Business Wire
                                     November 7, 2024 Thursday 5:33 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 493 words
Dateline: WESTMINSTER, Colo.

Body


Maxar Intelligence, provider of secure, precise geospatial insights, today announced an expanded partnership with
HERE Technologies, the leading location data and technology platform, to enhance the accuracy, freshness and
automation of HERE's mapmaking process.

This      press      release     features   multimedia.            View       the       full     release      here:
https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20241107634070/en/

Maxar WorldView-3 HD image of HERE's Chicago office on October 6, 2024. (Photo: Maxar)

HERE has been a pioneer in digital mapping for nearly 40 years. The company has utilized Maxar's satellite
imagery and geospatial content products for more than 15 years. HERE employs cutting-edge, AI-powered
cartography techniques to extract, ingest and conflate real-world features from diverse data sources. The
integration of Maxar's geospatial products continues to strengthen the precision and accuracy of the HERE map.

As part of a multiyear renewed agreement, HERE has subscribed to Maxar's Geospatial Platform (MGP) Pro for
access to the most current, very high-resolution imagery collected by the Maxar constellation, as well as Maxar's
Vivid imagery basemaps. This content provides HERE with a visually consistent and highly detailed view of the
Earth's surface, supporting precise and timely updates to its maps.

"Maxar's satellite imagery is a key ingredient that helps us scale automated mapmaking globally," said Jeff Raimo,
Vice President of Platform Enablement at HERE Technologies. "Our partnership with Maxar over the years has
enhanced the accuracy and freshness of the HERE map and location services, that are used by customers across
the automotive, transportation and logistics, mobility, manufacturing and retail industries."

"Maxar is proud to support HERE's mission to enable a digital representation of reality to improve the way the world
moves, lives and interacts," said Paul Granito, Maxar Intelligence's Senior Vice President and General Manager of
Enterprise. "By combining Maxar's global, daily satellite imagery collections via MGP Pro and our Vivid basemap,
HERE has critical insights for validating ground truth when producing an enterprise-grade map that offers precise
navigation capabilities."

                                                                                                     Page 2 of 2
               HERE Expands Partnership with Maxar Intelligence to Scale Automated Mapmaking

Learn more about how Maxar's satellite imagery improves mapmaking for use cases that require precision and
accuracy.

About Maxar Intelligence

Maxar Intelligence is a leading provider of secure, precise geospatial insights. Operating the most advanced
commercial Earth observation constellation on orbit, we use the power of very high-resolution satellite imagery and
software technology to deliver mission success on Earth and in space. Our secure, AI-powered products and
services deliver ground truth in near real-time to keep nations safe, improve navigation, protect our planet, speed
up disaster response and more. For more information, visit www.maxar.com .

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20241107634070/en/


CONTACT: Media Contact:
Kristin Carringer
Maxar Media Relations
1-303-684-4352

kristin.carringer@maxar.com Jordan Stark
HERE Media Relations
1-312-316-4537

Jordan.stark@here.com


http://www.businesswire.com



Graphic


Maxar WorldView-3 HD image of HERE's Chicago office on October 6, 2024. (Photo: Maxar)


Load-Date: November 7, 2024


  
