

                                                                                                      Page 1 of 2
               Nasuni Integrates Microsoft 365 Copilot Bringing AI Transformation to Unstructured Data




     Nasuni Integrates Microsoft 365 Copilot Bringing AI Transformation to
                              Unstructured Data
                                                           PR Newswire
                                         September 24, 2024 Tuesday 8:00 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 944 words
Dateline: BOSTON, Sept. 24, 2024

Body


PR NewswireIntegration with Microsoft Graph Connector Enables Greater Productivity with Enhanced AI-Powered
Search, Compliance, and Analytics Capabilities for Unstructured Data at ScaleBOSTON, Sept. 24, 2024
/PRNewswire/ --Nasuni, a leading enterprise data platform for hybrid cloud environments, today announced its
latest advancement in data intelligence by further integrating with Microsoft 365 Copilot. Through the Microsoft
Graph Connector, Nasuni managed data is now fully accessible and operational with Microsoft Search and
Microsoft 365 Copilot, significantly expanding data access for Microsoft's AI services.

 AI requires AI-ready infrastructure, and today's legacy data storage infrastructure creates a challenge for forward-
thinking enterprises. Legacy hardware-based storage generates silos of data, making it impossible to run AI and
analytics against it. Organizations, which can have billions of files and petabytes of data, need to break down these
silos and consolidate their data into the cloud. The power to unlock this data is incredible, which is why the Nasuni
File Data Platform enables this through data consolidation, protection, and accessibility for anyone and anything
(including AI).The Graph Connector enables organizations to leverage Nasuni's managed data repositories to
harness the full potential of Microsoft 365 Copilot, aligning AI-powered experiences with specific business needs
and workflows. Organizations can use the Graph Connector to leverage Nasuni data with Microsoft 365 semantic
index to unlock AI-powered search, enhanced compliance, and advanced analytics through a unified interface.Key
benefits of this integration include:Unlocking Greater Value from Data: Customers can now maximize the value of
their Nasuni managed data by making it accessible for personalized experiences via Microsoft 365 Copilot and
Microsoft Search, enriching user interactions with relevant content.AI-Powered Search and Insights: The Graph
Connector enables Nasuni managed files to be indexed into Microsoft's semantic index, which forms a key part of
the Microsoft 365 AI infrastructure. This semantic index is utilized by Microsoft 365 Copilot and Microsoft Search to
provide contextually relevant answers and insights across Microsoft 365 applications.A Unified Data Interface:
Customers benefit from single-pane-of-glass access to their Microsoft 365 data (including SharePoint and
OneDrive) and Nasuni. This unified view allows for efficient searching and interaction with documents across the
entire unstructured file stack, inclusive of Nasuni-managed data."By enabling Microsoft 365 Copilot through the use
of the Microsoft Graph Connector, we're empowering our customers to get even more value out of their Nasuni
managed data," said Jim Liddle, Chief Innovation Officer of Data Intelligence and AI at Nasuni. "This solution
integration will make it frictionless to use Microsoft 365 Copilot with Nasuni data in context with Microsoft 365 stored
data sets, allowing for more informed decision-making and improved efficiency in our customers' day-to-day
operations.""We are thrilled to see Nasuni build upon their rich history of Microsoft innovation and collaboration by

                                                                                                    Page 2 of 2
             Nasuni Integrates Microsoft 365 Copilot Bringing AI Transformation to Unstructured Data

leveraging the Microsoft Graph Connector to enable customers to seamlessly integrate their data into Microsoft 365
and Microsoft 365 Copilot," said Tony Surma, Chief Technology Officer for Microsoft Americas Partners. "This
collaboration demonstrates our joint ability to enable customers to unlock the full potential of their data with Nasuni
and Microsoft AI."Previously this year,Nasuni announcedits initiative to support customers in creating custom AI
Copilots with their Nasuni data. Building on this momentum, Nasuni is further expanding its offerings to integrate
seamlessly with Microsoft's AI-driven tools. With this solution integration, Nasuni continues to empower
organizations by providing best-of-breed AI solution integrations for interacting with unstructured data managed by
Nasuni.Customers can learn how to take advantage of this latest integration with the Microsoft 365 Copilot in
arecent postby Nasuni Chief Innovation Officer of Data Intelligence and AI, Jim Liddle. To learn from industry
experts about building AI-driven data strategies, consolidating and securing data, and hybrid cloud solutions,
accesson-demand contentfrom Nasuni's recent CloudBound 2024 event.About NasuniNasuni is a scalable data
platform for enterprises facing an explosion of unstructured data in an AI world. The Nasuni File Data Platform
provides effortless scale with hybrid cloud storage that delivers secure data access at the edge and supports
modern enterprise expectations for delivering AI-driven insights. Nasuni simplifies file data management while
increasing access and performance. Its best-in-class file recovery protects customers against a range of cyber
threats and eliminates the need for specialized backup and disaster recovery – all while cutting the cost of
infrastructure by up to 65%. Organizations worldwide rely on Nasuni, spanning across the manufacturing,
construction, energy, consumer goods, and public sectors. Nasuni's corporate headquarters is located in Boston,
Massachusetts, and the company delivers services to over 70 countries. For more information,
visitwww.nasuni.com.Media ContactsUS: Kristin Concannon
Nasuni
Phone: 617-416-2873
Email: UK/Europe: Beth Collinson
Waters Agency
Phone: +44 (0)7749 344 280

Email:     View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/nasuni-
integrates-microsoft-365-copilot-bringing-ai-transformation-to-unstructured-data-302252229.htmlSOURCE Nasuni


Load-Date: September 24, 2024


  
