

                                                                                                 Page 1 of 2
     Rackspace Technology Delivers One of the Largest Third-Party Epic Cloud Deployments for AdventHealth,
                                   Covering 53 Hospitals across Nine States




 Rackspace Technology Delivers One of the Largest Third-Party Epic Cloud
 Deployments for AdventHealth, Covering 53 Hospitals across Nine States
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                           November 14, 2024 Thursday 8:05 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: PRODUCT / SERVICES ANNOUNCEMENT
Length: 574 words

Body


Robust design and migration demonstrate Rackspace’s Epic subject matter expertise, private cloud leadership, and
innovation

SAN ANTONIO, Tx., Nov. 14, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Rackspace Technology® (NASDAQ: RXT), a leading
hybrid, multicloud, and AI technology services company, today announced the deployment of an Epic Electronic
Health Record (EHR) system for AdventHealth on Rackspace’s Healthcare Cloud platform. This implementation is
one of the largest Epic deployments for a US health system, scaling to over 38,000 concurrent users. Rackspace
Technology is fully hosting and managing the Epic environment as well as nine other strategic applications in the
AdventHealth IT portfolio.

"We are thrilled to announce the successful implementation and migration of our Electronic Health Record (EHR)
system to Rackspace. This seamless transition underscores our commitment to leveraging cutting-edge technology
to enhance patient care. With Rackspace's robust infrastructure and world-class managed services, we are not only
ensuring the reliability and performance of our EHR system, we are also significantly strengthening our disaster
recovery capabilities. This partnership allows us to provide seamless high-quality care to our patients, even in the
face of unforeseen challenges." said Herb Keller, Senior Vice President, Applications and Technology,
AdventHealth.

AdventHealth is one of the largest US Health Systems, trusting Rackspace to support their most important clinical
applications. AdventHealth’s engagement with Rackspace includes Service-Level Agreement (SLA) backed
managed services, a predictable cost model, expandability for growth, and cloud adjacency for third-party

                                                                                                Page 2 of 2
    Rackspace Technology Delivers One of the Largest Third-Party Epic Cloud Deployments for AdventHealth,
                                  Covering 53 Hospitals across Nine States

applications. With the addition of AdventHealth EHR into Rackspace’s Healthcare Cloud, Rackspace is now the
largest third-party Epic hosting provider in the world.

"The move to our Rackspace-hosted Epic EHR went smoothly and quickly (under 2-hour cutover), allowing our
leadership to focus on preparing for Hurricane Milton," said Phillip Arthur, VP & Chief Technical Architect for
AdventHealth. "We've also experienced notable performance improvements since going live, based on user
feedback and all of our operational metrics."

"We are excited to partner with AdventHealth, an impressive network of 53 hospitals spanning nine states and
serving over 8 million patients each year," said Brian Lillie, President of Private Cloud at Rackspace Technology.
“Healthcare is a major growth area for Rackspace, and the AdventHealth Epic migration showcases our expertise in
managing mission-critical healthcare applications and providing exceptional managed services to healthcare
communities that are tailored to meet unique and scaled needs.”

“We're honored and excited to support AdventHealth's EHR, the largest Epic instance in the cloud, powered by
Rackspace’s private cloud," said PV SubbaRao, Sr. Vice President, Global Healthcare and Life Sciences.

About Rackspace Technology Rackspace Technology is a leading end-to-end, hybrid, multicloud, and AI solutions
company. We can design, build, and operate our customers' cloud environments across all major technology
platforms, irrespective of technology stack or deployment model. We partner with our customers at every stage of
their cloud journey, enabling them to modernize applications, build new products, and adopt innovative
technologies.

Media Contact: Natalie Silva, publicrelations@rackspace.com


Load-Date: November 14, 2024


  
