

                                                                            Page 1 of 2
    APEC BUSINESS LEADERS CALL FOR BOLD ACTIONS ON SUSTAINABLE GROWTH AND ECONOMIC
                                      INTEGRATION




 APEC BUSINESS LEADERS CALL FOR BOLD ACTIONS ON SUSTAINABLE
              GROWTH AND ECONOMIC INTEGRATION
                                               States News Service
                                          November 13, 2024 Wednesday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 812 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: LIMA, Peru

Body


The following information was released by Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC):

With challenges becoming increasingly borderless, business leaders from across the Asia-Pacific region are calling
on APEC Leaders to take decisive actions to boost sustainable and inclusive growth. The call comes as APEC
Business Advisory Council (ABAC) members prepare to meet with APEC Leaders later this week in their annual
dialogue.

"While the global economy remains resilient, APEC economies are grappling with persistent inflation, economic
disparities, high interest rates, and the urgent need to increase investments for a green, climate-resilient future,"
said ABAC Chair Julia Torreblanca.

"Our recommendations are designed to help APEC respond rapidly to these challenges, creating opportunities for
people and businesses across the region. We want to enable equitable access to economic benefits, support
businesses with robust trade foundations, and ensure sustainable and resilient growth," Torreblanca said.

ABAC urges APEC to prioritize the needs of micro, small, and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs), particularly
those led by women and Indigenous entrepreneurs. The Council recommends policies to promote digitalization and
provide equitable access to financing, including venture capital for women entrepreneurs. ABAC views digital tools
as key to integrating more businesses into protections and opportunities afforded by the formal economy and
connecting MSMEs to global value chains, fostering better opportunities for citizens.

With digital transformation increasingly impacting daily life, ABAC issued a standalone statement highlighting five
emerging trends for the digital economy. ABAC calls upon APEC Ministers responsible for digital innovation to
commit to these priorities, act with urgency, and collaborate closely with ABAC in 2025 to address these
developments to build a resilient digital economy that benefits all.

                                                                           Page 2 of 2
   APEC BUSINESS LEADERS CALL FOR BOLD ACTIONS ON SUSTAINABLE GROWTH AND ECONOMIC
                                     INTEGRATION

"The actions we take today will shape the digital economy of tomorrow. Let us seize this moment to lead with bold,
decisive measures that will secure a sustainable, inclusive, and prosperous digital future for all APEC economies,"
Torreblanca added.

This year, ABAC also issued stand-alone statements supporting the Free Trade Area of the Asia-Pacific (FTAAP)
and the World Trade Organization (WTO), underscoring the importance of global and regional frameworks in
creating a seamless business environment. Recognizing the importance of interoperability for continued growth in
the digital economy, ABAC advocates for regulatory coherence on data flows, cybersecurity, digitally deliverable
services, including through a 'New Services Agenda'."

As artificial intelligence becomes more prevalent, ABAC emphasizes the need for frameworks that govern AI
responsibly and inclusively. They recommend incorporating these standards into trade agreements and supporting
skills development and structural reforms to maximize AI's benefits while minimizing risks.

ABAC believes that creating a transparent, efficient, and investment-friendly climate across the region is essential.
They urge APEC to prioritize measures that facilitate investment and to support the WTO's Investment Facilitation
for Development initiative, aiming to create a comprehensive roadmap for investment facilitation that adapts to the
evolving global landscape.

The climate crisis is central to ABAC's agenda, with the Council noting that the world has experienced over a year
of temperatures exceeding 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. ABAC calls for urgent collective action,
advocating for energy transitions, disaster preparedness, and climate risk mitigation. They emphasize the need for
public-private partnerships to expand green financing, reduce currency risks, and support cross-border trading of
voluntary carbon credits.Trade will also be central to an effective climate response, enabled through a cross-
regional 'Greener Trade Framework'.

Torreblanca highlighted work developed during the year under the theme 'People. Business. Prosperity' that
confirms the value and power of partnership and collaboration to drive change and accomplish common goals that
can improve people's conditions, allow business to grow and generate prosperity.

Minister of Foreign Affairs Elmer Schialer delivered the keynote address to open the meeting and spoke of the
enduring benefits of public-private partnerships and collaboration to achieve meaningful outcomes for the region.
Minister of Foreign Trade and Tourism Desil Len addressed ABAC members highlighting the varied investment
opportunities in Peru.

At the close of the meeting, ABAC Chair Julia Torreblanca passed leadership to H. S. Cho of ABAC Korea, marking
a transition as APEC leaders prepare to address these pressing challenges and explore opportunities for
sustainable growth across the Asia-Pacific region.


Load-Date: November 14, 2024


  
