

                                                                            Page 1 of 2
  EPA AWARDS $400,000 TO GREENLIFE TECH CORPORATION IN NORTH CAROLINA FOR DEVELOPING
                             ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGIES




   EPA AWARDS $400,000 TO GREENLIFE TECH CORPORATION IN NORTH
     CAROLINA FOR DEVELOPING ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGIES
                                               States News Service
                                             October 25, 2024 Friday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 563 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: RALEIGH, N.C.

Body


The following information was released by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA):

Greenlife Tech Corporation is one of only seven small businesses selected nationwide for this award

October 25, 2024

RALEIGH, N.C. Today, October 25, 2024, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency announced $2.8 million in
funding to seven small businesses to further develop and commercialize their environmental technologies. With
these awards from EPA's Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program, businesses will be tackling
complex challenges including destroying PFAS, cleaning indoor air during wildfires, enhancing recycling systems,
reducing food waste, and improving disaster response.

Greenlife Tech Corporation of Banner Elk, North Carolina was selected for its development of an autonomous
system that controls oxygen levels in refrigerators to preserve produce for a longer time. The company will receive
about $400,000 to continue development of this technology.

"Congratulations to these small businesses for continuing to pursue innovative solutions to some of our most
pressing environmental challenges," said Maureen Gwinn, Acting Assistant Administrator for EPA's Office of
Research and Development. "EPA is proud to invest in these small businesses as they work to help protect human
health and the environment across many sectors and help grow the American economy."

"We congratulate Greenlife Tech Corporation for developing this promising new technology to prevent and reduce
food waste, which is a significant problem in our country and the world," said acting Regional Administrator
Jeaneanne Gettle of EPA's Southeast Region. "In 2015, EPA and our sister agency USDA announced a goal to
reduce food waste in the U.S. by 50 percent by 2030. New technologies, like this refrigeration technique developed
by Greenlife Tech, will help us achieve this important goal."

For over 40 years, EPA's SBIR program has funded small businesses as they create environmental technologies
and bring them to the marketplace. SBIR projects are funded in a phased approach. For Phase I, EPA awards

                                                                            Page 2 of 2
  EPA AWARDS $400,000 TO GREENLIFE TECH CORPORATION IN NORTH CAROLINA FOR DEVELOPING
                             ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGIES

contracts of up to $100,000 for six months for "proof of concept" of the proposed technology. Small businesses that
have received a Phase I award can compete for a Phase II award of $400,000 to further develop and commercialize
the technology.

Six other businesses selected nationwide for this award are receiving about $400,000 each in SBIR Phase II
awards for the following projects:

DiPole Materials, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland, to design a biodegradable filter made of electro-spun nanofibers to
clean indoor air during wildfires.

Fourth State LLC, Ann Arbor, Michigan, for a plasma treatment technology to destroy PFAS in complex water
matrices.

Holochip Corporation, Torrance, California, to build an artificial intelligence application to map sites to improve the
safety and efficacy of disaster response.

KLAW Industries LLC, Binghamton, New York, to produce a rapidly deployable, autonomous robotic sorting system
to improve recycling facilities in disadvantaged communities.

Valis Insights, Inc., Worcester, Massachusetts, to develop an automated and AI-driven technology that helps
optimize the sorting process for metals recycling.

Water Illumination, Inc., Riverside, California, to create a novel chemical-free UV based PFAS destruction
technology for saline wastewater treatment.


Load-Date: October 25, 2024


  
