

                                                                                                       Page 1 of 3
                  Fifth Big Data Hackathon Brings Student Teams Together to Solve Pressing Issues




 Fifth Big Data Hackathon Brings Student Teams Together to Solve Pressing
                                   Issues
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                       September 25, 2024 Wednesday 8:40 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 814 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: SAN DIEGO, California

Body


San Diego State University issued the following news:

***

$13K in prize money will be awarded to student teams who prepare digital solutions for health care issues

***

By Leslie L.J. Reilly

San Diego State University's fifth Big Data Hackathon is calling on student innovators to improve health care
access and tackle health disparities. Set for October 12 and 19 at SDSU, the event will challenge participants to
create cutting-edge ideas, solutions and apps where the focus will be on "Enhancing Healthcare's Digital Front
Door."

Open to all students from SDSU and other San Diego colleges and high schools, the Hackathon is an invitation to
develop solutions for some of San Diego's most pressing issues by using skills in journalism, business, marketing,
graphic design, data, public health, urban planning, programming, mapping or GIS.

Participants will work to improve access to care, patient satisfaction, new patient experience, health management,
and mental health challenges.

Teams can be formed by student groups or assigned by Hackathon organizers for students who join individually.

Teams vie for a total of $13,000 in prizes. In addition to the top four awards, prize money will be given to teams in
categories such as Women in STEM, Most Innovative Proposal Idea, Geocomputational Thinker (College and High
School categories), and Strongest Teamwork.

                                                                                                        Page 2 of 3
                Fifth Big Data Hackathon Brings Student Teams Together to Solve Pressing Issues

Judges from SDSU, Sharp HealthCare and San Diego Mesa College will evaluate teams based on idea quality
(innovation and creativity), market readiness, health care impact, teamwork and collaboration, and overall
development and design.

This year, the goal is to find digital solutions to help increase access, manage health, and improve patient
satisfaction along the health care journey, according to Ming-Hsiang Tsou, Center for Human Dynamics in the
Mobile Age director.

"During the COVID-19 Pandemic, our health care system faced many challenges and obstacles," Tsou said. "I hope
our participants can help our San Diego health communities to provide innovative and sustainable ideas or
solutions for improving the quality of our health care and reducing health disparity in San Diego."

The emphasis on design and creativity means that all skills will be critical to a team's work.

Participants will get a "chance to see how they can solve a problem that impacts the wider San Diego community,
learn and gain knowledge about big data and its impacts in the field of health care, they get to ideate and create an
innovative project, the opportunity to connect and network with others as well as collaborate with teams on a unified
goal, and learn a variety of skills in the process (from big data analytic skills to entrepreneurial skills)," said Amy
Schmitz Weiss, associate professor of journalism, and part of the Hackathon planning team since its inception
nearly 10 years ago.

Created by the HDMA in collaboration with SDSU's ZIP Launchpad, the Hackathon has previously addressed
issues such as water conservation, crime, disaster response, public health and smart living. In 2022, the first place
team won $3,000 by creating "cenos.ai," an automated healthcare dashboard that simplifies patient appointment
scheduling.

"I'm not very tech-savvy, so I was hesitant to attend," said Anna Skulteti, SDSU Fowler College of Business
management alumna ('23). Her team, the HeartHackers, won first prize and $1,000 in ZIP Launchpad's Most
Innovative Solution Team Aging Independently category in 2022. Skulteti said that competitors shouldn't assume
coding skills are critical to win.

"It was more about being creative, confident, analytical and a team player," she said. "Regardless of the outcome or
the monetary prize, the time spent with my spontaneously assembled team was the most valuable part of the
experience."

Students will be paired with mentors from the San Diego workforce and academia, which gives them an opportunity
to hone their proposal idea pitches in a real-world setting with support from an engaged group of leaders. Mentors
include Benjamin Shapiro, CEO and co-founder of Endera Motors/TekMate; Santosh J. Vetticaden, board member
of NuFund Venture Group; Eric Busboom, president of the San Diego Regional Data Library; and Jill Castellano,
investigative data coordinator at inewsource.

During the two-day event, keynote speakers include Jon McManus, chief data, AI and development officer, Sharp
HealthCare; Laura Buffard, associate vice president innovation, SDSU Division of Research and Innovation; and
Todd Butler, dean, College of Arts and Letters.

***

IF YOU GO

BIG DATA HACKATHON SAN DIEGO

Saturday, Oct 12, 8:30 a.m.-5:50 p.m.

Saturday, Oct. 19, 8:30 a.m.-4:30 p.m.

Storm Hall West (Room 12, Charles Hostler Hall)

                                                                                                  Page 3 of 3
                Fifth Big Data Hackathon Brings Student Teams Together to Solve Pressing Issues

***

Original text here: https://www.sdsu.edu/news/2024/09/fifth-big-data-hackathon-brings-student-teams-together-to-
solve-pressing-issues

Copyright Targeted News Services

MSTRUCK-8838029 MSTRUCK


Load-Date: September 25, 2024


  
