

                                                                                               Page 1 of 3
           WISeKey Subsidiary WISeSAT.Space Announces Strategic Alliance with Global Radio Systems




    WISeKey Subsidiary WISeSAT.Space Announces Strategic Alliance with
                          Global Radio Systems
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                          September 4, 2024 Wednesday 9:19 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: COMPANY ANNOUNCEMENT
Length: 1339 words

Body


WISeKey Subsidiary WISeSAT.Space Announces Strategic Alliance with Global Radio Systems



Algeciras, Spain; Geneva, Switzerland – September 4, 2024: WISeKey International Holding Ltd. (“WISeKey” or
“Company”) (SIX: WIHN, NASDAQ: WKEY), a global leader in cybersecurity, digital identity and Internet
innovations of Things (IoT), today announced that via its subsidiary WISeSAT.Space (“WISeSAT”), it has entered
into a strategic alliance with Global Radio Systems for the development of innovative solutions and integration of
advanced technologies to enhance cyber-secure radio communications connectivity in critical environments such as
emergencies, security and defense.

Headquartered in Spain, and with operations in more than 15 countries, Global Radio Systems offers secured
professional radio communication services, including local and international talk/connection, remote support,
emergency alerts, location and real time status, etc. to a wide range of clients.

Innovation and Security in Radio Communication

The collaboration between Global Radio Systems and WISeSAT, presented during the APBA Journey of Innovation
event, will focus on creating innovative solutions that combine the advanced technologies of WISeKey and Global
Radio Systems. This synergy will allow the offering of cutting-edge services and products that improve safety and
efficiency in key sectors. The benefits of this alliance will extend to essential services, including the armed forces,
police forces, firefighters, and other organizations that operate in extreme conditions and require reliable and
secure communications.

                                                                                              Page 2 of 3
          WISeKey Subsidiary WISeSAT.Space Announces Strategic Alliance with Global Radio Systems

Connectivity with Low Orbit Satellite Technology

The agreement provides for the use of the WISeSAT low-orbit satellite constellation to ensure robust and
continuous connectivity, even in the most challenging environments. These technologies will allow greater flexibility
and reach in emergency, security and defense operations, providing essential support for real-time decision
making.

Commitment to Excellence and Innovation

"This alliance represents a significant step in our commitment to leading innovation in secure radio
communications," said Pedro Roldán, CEO of Global Radio Systems. "By joining our strengths with WISeSAT, we
are prepared to offer unique solutions that meet the most demanding needs of our clients in critical sectors."

Carlos Moreno, VP Corporate Alliances & Partnerships of WISeSAT.Space, added, "We are excited to work
alongside Global Radio Systems to develop technologies that not only revolutionize the market, but also provide
critical service to those who depend on secure communications in their daily operations. "

About WISeSAT.Space

WISeSat AG is pioneering a transformative approach to IoT connectivity and climate change monitoring through its
innovative satellite constellation. By providing cost-effective, secure, and global IoT connectivity, WISeSat is
enabling a wide range of applications that support environmental monitoring, disaster management, and
sustainable practices. The integration of satellite data with advanced climate models holds great promise for
enhancing our understanding of climate change and developing effective strategies to combat its impacts. As the
world continues to grapple with the challenges of climate change, initiatives like WISeSat’s IoT satellite constellation
are essential for creating a more resilient and sustainable future.

About WISeKey

WISeKey International Holding Ltd (“WISeKey”, SIX: WIHN; Nasdaq: WKEY) is a global leader in cybersecurity,
digital identity, and IoT solutions platform. It operates as a Swiss-based holding company through several
operational subsidiaries, each dedicated to specific aspects of its technology portfolio. The subsidiaries include (i)
SEALSQ Corp (Nasdaq: LAES), which focuses on semiconductors, PKI, and post-quantum technology products, (ii)
WISeKey SA which specializes in RoT and PKI solutions for secure authentication and identification in IoT,
Blockchain, and AI, (iii) WISeSat AG which focuses on space technology for secure satellite communication,
specifically for IoT applications, (iv) WISe.ART Corp which focuses on trusted blockchain NFTs and operates the
WISe.ART marketplace for secure NFT transactions, and (v) SEALCOIN AG which focuses on decentralized
physical internet with DePIN technology and house the development of the SEALCOIN platform.

Each subsidiary contributes to WISeKey’s mission of securing the internet while focusing on their respective areas
of research and expertise. Their technologies seamlessly integrate into the comprehensive WISeKey platform.
WISeKey secures digital identity ecosystems for individuals and objects using Blockchain, AI, and IoT technologies.
With over 1.6 billion microchips deployed across various IoT sectors, WISeKey plays a vital role in securing the
Internet of Everything. The company’s semiconductors generate valuable Big Data that, when analyzed with AI,
enable predictive equipment failure prevention. Trusted by the OISTE/WISeKey cryptographic Root of Trust,
WISeKey provides secure authentication and identification for IoT, Blockchain, and AI applications. The WISeKey
Root of Trust ensures the integrity of online transactions between objects and people.

For more information on WISeKey’s strategic direction and its subsidiary companies, please visit
www.wisekey.com.

About Global Radio System

With more than 25 years of experience in the field of communications in security and emergency environments, the
promoting team of Global Radio System, S.L launched the company in 2018 as a Professional Radio

                                                                                               Page 3 of 3
           WISeKey Subsidiary WISeSAT.Space Announces Strategic Alliance with Global Radio Systems

Communications Operator. With headquarters in Seville (Spain), it has developed an innovative solution with a
disruptive business model in the field of radio communications, adapted to security and emergency environments
and to all types of activity sectors, which allows its clients push to communications, talk locally and internationally,
offer remote support, emergency alerts with your operators, control your location and status in real time, and many
more applications. With very significant growth in the last 3 years, it is present in more than 15 countries in Europe,
Africa and Latin America, counting among its clients ministries of defense, police, private security companies,
firefighters, customs control, health transportation and the industrial environment.

Contact:

           WISeKey International Holding    WISeKey Investor Relations (US)The           Global Radio
           LtdCompany Contact: Carlos       Equity Group Inc.Lena CatiTel: +1 212 836-   SystemGustavo
           MoreiraChairman & CEOTel: +41    9611 / lcati@equityny.comKatie               PérezCommercial
           22 594 3000info@wisekey.com      MurphyTel: +1 212 836-9612 /                 Directorgperez@globalradi
                                            kmurphy@equityny.com                         osystem.com + 34 610 509
                                                                                         195

Disclaimer:This communication expressly or implicitly contains certain forward-looking statements concerning
WISeKey International Holding Ltd and its business. Such statements involve certain known and unknown risks,
uncertainties and other factors, which could cause the actual results, financial condition, performance or
achievements of WISeKey International Holding Ltd to be materially different from any future results, performance
or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. WISeKey International Holding Ltd is
providing this communication as of this date and does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements
contained herein as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

This press release does not constitute an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy, any securities, and it does
not constitute an offering prospectus within the meaning of the Swiss Financial Services Act (“FinSA”), the FInSa’s
predecessor legislation or advertising within the meaning of the FinSA. Investors must rely on their own evaluation
of WISeKey and its securities, including the merits and risks involved. Nothing contained herein is, or shall be relied
on as, a promise or representation as to the future performance of WISeKey.


Load-Date: September 4, 2024


  
