

                                                                                                         Page 1 of 5
                               Here are the people Trump has picked for key positions so far




             Here are the people Trump has picked for key positions so far
                                                      The Associated Press
                                       November 13, 2024 Wednesday 11:23 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Associated Press All Rights Reserved

Section: DOMESTIC NEWS; POLITICAL NEWS; STATE AND REGIONAL
Length: 2308 words
Byline: THOMAS BEAUMONT, Associated Press

Body


President-elect Donald Trump is starting to fill key posts in his second administration, putting an emphasis so far on
aides and allies who were his strongest backers during the 2024 campaign.

Here's a look at whom he has selected so far.

Marco Rubio, secretary of state

Trump named Florida Sen. Marco Rubio to be secretary of state, making a former sharp critic his choice to be the
new administration's top diplomat.

Rubio, 53, is a noted hawk on China, Cuba and Iran, and was a finalist to be Trump's running mate on the
Republican ticket last summer. Rubio is the vice chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee and a member of
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

“He will be a strong Advocate for our Nation, a true friend to our Allies, and a fearless Warrior who will never back
down to our adversaries,” Trump said of Rubio in a statement.

The announcement punctuates the hard pivot Rubio has made with Trump, whom the senator called a “con man"
during his unsuccessful campaign for the 2016 GOP presidential nomination.

Their relationship improved dramatically while Trump was in the White House. And as Trump campaigned for the
presidency a third time, Rubio cheered his proposals. For instance, Rubio, who more than a decade ago helped
craft immigration legislation that included a path to citizenship for people in the U.S. illegally, now supports Trump's
plan to use the U.S. military for mass deportations.

Matt Gaetz, attorney general

Trump said Wednesday he will nominate Florida Rep. Matt Gaetz to serve as his attorney general, naming a loyalist
in the role of the nation's top prosecutor.

                                                                                                        Page 2 of 5
                           Here are the people Trump has picked for key positions so far

In selecting Gaetz, 42, Trump passed over some of the more established lawyers whose names had been
mentioned as being contenders for the job.

“Matt will end Weaponized Government, protect our Borders, dismantle Criminal Organizations and Restore
Americans' badly-shattered Faith and Confidence in the Justice Department,” Trump said in a statement.

The House Ethics Committee is currently investigating an allegation that Gaetz paid for sex with a 17-year-old.
Gaetz has denied any wrongdoing.

Tulsi Gabbard, director of national intelligence

Former Hawaii Rep. Tulsi Gabbard has been tapped by Trump to be director of national intelligence, keeping with
the trend to stock his Cabinet with loyal personalities rather than veteran professionals in their requisite fields.

Gabbard, 43, was a Democratic House member who unsuccessfully sought the party's 2020 presidential
nomination before leaving the party in 2022. She endorsed Trump in August and campaigned often with him this
fall.

“I know Tulsi will bring the fearless spirit that has defined her illustrious career to our Intelligence Community,”
Trump said in a statement.

Gabbard, who has served in the Army National Guard for more than two decades, deploying to Iraq and Kuwait,
would come to the role as somewhat of an outsider compared to her predecessor. The current director, Avril
Haines, was confirmed by the Senate in 2021 following several years in a number of top national security and
intelligence positions.

Dan Scavino, deputy chief of staff

Scavino, whom Trump's transition referred to in a statement as one of “Trump's longest serving and most trusted
aides,” was a senior adviser to Trump's 2024 campaign, as well as his 2016 and 2020 campaigns. He will be
deputy chief of staff and assistant to the president.

Scavino had run Trump's social media profile in the White House during his first administration. He was also held in
contempt of Congress in 2022 after a month-long refusal to comply with a subpoena from the House committee’s
investigation into the Jan. 6, 2021, attack on the U.S. Capitol.

James Blair, deputy chief of staff

Blair was political director for Trump's 2024 campaign and for the Republican National Committee. He will be
deputy chief of staff for legislative, political and public affairs and assistant to the president.

Blair was key to Trump's economic messaging during his winning White House comeback campaign this year, a
driving force behind the candidate's “Trump can fix it” slogan and his query to audiences this fall if they were better
off than four years ago.

Taylor Budowich, deputy chief of staff

Budowich is a veteran Trump campaign aide who launched and directed Make America Great Again, Inc., a super
PAC that supported Trump's 2024 campaign. He will be deputy chief of staff for communications and personnel and
assistant to the president.

Budowich also had served as a spokesman for Trump after his presidency.

Pete Hegseth, secretary of defense

                                                                                                         Page 3 of 5
                           Here are the people Trump has picked for key positions so far

Hegseth, 44, is a co-host of Fox News Channel’s “Fox & Friends Weekend” and has been a contributor with the
network since 2014, where he developed a friendship with Trump, who made regular appearances on the show.

Hegseth lacks senior military and national security experience. If confirmed by the Senate, he would inherit the top
job during a series of global crises — ranging from Russia’s war in Ukraine and the ongoing attacks in the Middle
East by Iranian proxies to the push for a cease-fire between Israel, Hamas and Hezbollah and escalating worries
about the growing alliance between Russia and North Korea.

Hegseth is also the author of “The War on Warriors: Behind the Betrayal of the Men Who Keep Us Free,” published
earlier this year.

Kristi Noem, secretary of homeland security

Noem is a well-known conservative who faced sharp criticism for telling a story in her memoir about shooting a
rambunctious dog. She is set to lead an agency crucial to the president-elect’s hardline immigration agenda.

Noem used her two terms leading a tiny state to vault to a prominent position in Republican politics.

South Dakota is usually a political afterthought. But during the COVID-19 pandemic, Noem did not order restrictions
that other states had issued and instead declared her state “open for business.” Trump held a fireworks rally at
Mount Rushmore in July 2020 in one of the first large gatherings of the pandemic.

She would lead a department with a sprawling mission. In addition to key immigration agencies, the Department of
Homeland Security oversees natural disaster response, the U.S. Secret Service and Transportation Security
Administration agents who work at airports.

William McGinley, White House counsel

McGinley was White House Cabinet secretary during Trump's first administration, and was outside legal counsel for
the Republican National Committee's election integrity effort during the 2024 campaign.

In a statement, Trump called McGinley “a smart and tenacious lawyer who will help me advance our America First
agenda, while fighting for election integrity and against the weaponization of law enforcement.”

John Ratcliffe, CIA director

Ratcliffe was director of national intelligence during the final year and a half of Trump's first term, leading the U.S.
government's spy agencies during the coronavirus pandemic.

“I look forward to John being the first person ever to serve in both of our Nation's highest Intelligence positions,”
Trump said in a statement, calling him a “fearless fighter for the Constitutional Rights of all Americans” who would
ensure “the Highest Levels of National Security, and PEACE THROUGH STRENGTH.”

Steven Witkoff, special envoy to the Middle East

The 67-year-old Witkoff is the president-elect's golf partner and was golfing with him at Trump's club in West Palm
Beach, Florida, on Sept. 15, when the former president was the target of a second attempted assassination.

Witkoff “is a Highly Respected Leader in Business and Philanthropy,” Trump said of Witkoff in a statement. “Steve
will be an unrelenting Voice for PEACE, and make us all proud."

Trump also named Witkoff co-chair, with former Georgia Sen. Kelly Loeffler, of his inaugural committee.

Mike Huckabee, ambassador to Israel

                                                                                                        Page 4 of 5
                           Here are the people Trump has picked for key positions so far

Huckabee is a staunch defender of Israel and his intended nomination comes as Trump has promised to align U.S.
foreign policy more closely with Israel's interests as it wages wars against the Iran-backed Hamas and Hezbollah.

“He loves Israel, and likewise the people of Israel love him,” Trump said in a statement. “Mike will work tirelessly to
bring about peace in the Middle East.”

Huckabee, who ran unsuccessfully for the Republican nomination in 2008 and 2016, has been a popular figure
among evangelical Christian conservatives, many of whom support Israel due to Old Testament writings that Jews
are God’s chosen people and that Israel is their rightful homeland.

Trump has been praised by some in this important Republican voting bloc for moving the U.S. embassy in Israel
from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem.

Huckabee has rejected a Palestinian homeland in territory occupied by Israel, calling for a so-called “one-state
solution.”

Mike Waltz, national security adviser

Waltz is a three-term GOP congressman from east-central Florida. He served multiple tours in Afghanistan and also
worked in the Pentagon as a policy adviser when Donald Rumsfeld and Robert Gates were defense chiefs.

He is considered hawkish on China, and called for a U.S. boycott of the 2022 Winter Olympics in Beijing due to its
involvement in the origin of COVID-19 and its mistreatment of the minority Muslim Uighur population.

Susie Wiles, chief of staff

Wiles, 67, was a senior adviser to Trump's 2024 presidential campaign and its de facto manager.

Wiles has a background in Florida politics. She helped Ron DeSantis win his first race for Florida governor. Six
years later, she was key to Trump's defeat of him in the 2024 Republican primary.

Wiles’ hire was Trump’s first major decision as president-elect and one that could be a defining test of his incoming
administration considering her close relationship with the president-elect. Wiles is said to have earned Trump's trust
in part by guiding what was the most disciplined of Trump's three presidential campaigns.

Wiles was able to help keep Trump on track as few others have, not by criticizing his impulses, but by winning his
respect by demonstrating his success after taking her advice.

Tom Homan, ‘border czar’

Homan, 62, has been tasked with Trump’s top priority of carrying out the largest deportation operation in the
nation’s history.

Homan, who served under Trump in his first administration leading U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
was widely expected to be offered a position related to the border, an issue Trump made central to his campaign.

Though Homan has insisted such a massive undertaking would be humane, he has long been a loyal supporter of
Trump's policy proposals, suggesting at a July conference in Washington that he would be willing to "run the
biggest deportation operation this country’s ever seen.”

Democrats have criticized Homan for defending Trump's “zero tolerance” policy on border crossings during his first
administration, which led to the separation of thousands of parents and children seeking asylum at the border.

Elise Stefanik, United Nations ambassador

                                                                                                       Page 5 of 5
                           Here are the people Trump has picked for key positions so far

Stefanik is a representative from New York and one of Trump's staunchest defenders going back to his first
impeachment.

Elected to the House in 2014, Stefanik was selected by her GOP House colleagues as House Republican
Conference chair in 2021, when former Wyoming Rep. Liz Cheney was removed from the post after publicly
criticizing Trump for falsely claiming he won the 2020 election. Stefanik, 40, has served in that role ever since as
the third-ranking member of House leadership.

Stefanik’s questioning of university presidents over antisemitism on their campuses helped lead to two of those
presidents resigning, further raising her national profile.

If confirmed, she would represent American interests at the U.N. as Trump vows to end the war waged by Russia
against Ukraine that began in 2022.

Stephen Miller, deputy chief of staff for policy

Miller, an immigration hardliner, was a vocal spokesperson during the presidential campaign for Trump's priority of
mass deportations. The 39-year-old was a senior adviser during Trump's first administration.

Miller has been a central figure in some of Trump's policy decisions, notably his move to separate thousands of
immigrant families.

Trump argued throughout the campaign that the nation's economic, national security and social priorities could be
met by deporting people who are in the United States illegally. Since Trump left office in 2021, Miller has served as
the president of America First Legal, an organization made up of former Trump advisers aimed at challenging the
Biden administration, media companies, universities and others over issues such as free speech and national
security.

Lee Zeldin, Environmental Protection Agency

Zeldin does not appear to have any experience in environmental issues, but is a longtime supporter of the former
president. The 44-year-old former U.S. House member from New York wrote on X, “We will restore US energy
dominance, revitalize our auto industry to bring back American jobs, and make the US the global leader of AI.”

“We will do so while protecting access to clean air and water,” he added.

During his campaign, Trump often attacked the Biden administration's promotion of electric vehicles, and incorrectly
referred to a tax credit for EV purchases as a government mandate. Trump also often told his audiences during the
campaign that his administration would “drill, baby, drill,” referring to his support for expanded petroleum
exploration.

In a statement, Trump said Zeldin “will ensure fair and swift deregulatory decisions that will be enacted in a way to
unleash the power of American businesses, while at the same time maintaining the highest environmental
standards, including the cleanest air and water on the planet.”

___

Associated Press writers Farnoush Amiri, Lolita C. Baldor, Jill Colvin, Matthew Daly, Edith M. Lederer, Adriana
Gomez Licon, Lisa Mascaro, Zeke Miller, Michelle L. Price and Will Weissert contributed to this report.


Load-Date: November 13, 2024


  
