

                                                                                                Page 1 of 4
              NSF Issues Grant Notice for Addressing Systems Challenges Through Engineering Teams




      NSF Issues Grant Notice for Addressing Systems Challenges Through
                              Engineering Teams
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                           October 13, 2024 Sunday 1:20 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 1148 words
Byline: Aliza Qamar, Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


WASHINGTON, Oct. 13 -- The National Science Foundation has issued a grant notice involving Addressing
Systems Challenges through Engineering Teams.

***

Description: The Electrical, Communications and Cyber Systems Division (ECCS) supports enabling and
transformative engineering research at the nano, micro, and macro scales that fuels progress in engineering system
applications with high societal impact. This includes fundamental engineering research underlying advanced
devices and components and their seamless penetration in communications, sensing, power, controls, networking,
or cyber systems. The research is envisioned to be empowered by cutting-edge computation, synthesis, evaluation,
and analysis technologies and is to result in significant impact for a variety of application domains in healthcare,
homeland security, disaster mitigation, telecommunications, energy, environment, transportation, manufacturing,
and other systems-related areas. ECCS also supports new and emerging research areas encompassing 6G and
Beyond Spectrum and Wireless Technologies, Quantum Information Science, Artificial Intelligence (AI), Machine
Learning (ML), High-Performance Computing, and Big Data. ECCS, through its ASCENT program, offers its
engineering community the opportunity to address research issues and answer engineering challenges associated
with complex systems and networks that are not achievable by a single principal investigator or by short-term
projects and can only be achieved by interdisciplinary research teams.

ECCS envisions a connected portfolio of transformative and integrative projects that create synergistic links by
investigators across its three ECCS clusters: Communications, Circuits, and Sensing-Systems (CCSS), Electronics,
Photonics and Magnetic Devices (EPMD), and Energy, Power, Control, and Networks (EPCN), yielding novel ways
of addressing challenges of engineering systems and networks. ECCS seeks proposals that are bold and ground-
breaking, transcend the perspectives and approaches typical of disciplinary research efforts, and lead to disruptive
technologies and methods or enable significant improvement in quality of life.

                                                                                              Page 2 of 4
            NSF Issues Grant Notice for Addressing Systems Challenges Through Engineering Teams

* ASCENT supports fundamental research projects involving at least three collaborating PIs and co-PIs, up to four
years in duration, with a total budget between $1 million and $1.5 million.

* ASCENT proposals must highlight the engineering leadership focus of the proposal within the scope of ECCS
programs.

* ASCENT proposals must articulate a fundamental research problem with compelling intellectual challenge and
significant societal impact. The topic at the heart of the proposal must involve research areas of at least two of the
three ECCS clusters (CCSS, EPMD, EPCN). Research proposals spanning three clusters are highly encouraged.

* ASCENT proposals must demonstrate the need for a concerted research effort by an integrated and
interdisciplinary team, and strongly justify the interdisciplinary nature of the proposed work. They should include a
timeline for research activities, with a strong justification of the explicit mechanisms for frequent communication
between team members and effective assessment to achieve proposed goals.

Assuming sufficient funding is provided in the NSF budget, it is anticipated that the ASCENT competition will
continue with research themes and priorities subject to changing in the subsequent years.

***

25-503

Addressing Systems Challenges through Engineering Teams

National Science Foundation

National Science Foundation

General Information

Document Type: Grants Notice

Funding Opportunity Number: 25-503

Funding Opportunity Title: Addressing Systems Challenges through Engineering Teams

Opportunity Category: Discretionary

Opportunity Category Explanation:

Funding Instrument Type: Grant

Category of Funding Activity: Science and Technology and other Research and Development

Category Explanation:

Expected Number of Awards: 9

Assistance Listings: 47.041 -- Engineering

Cost Sharing or Matching Requirement: No

Version: Synopsis 1

Posted Date: Oct 10, 2024

Last Updated Date: Oct 10, 2024

Original Closing Date for Applications: Jan 22, 2025

                                                                                                Page 3 of 4
              NSF Issues Grant Notice for Addressing Systems Challenges Through Engineering Teams

Current Closing Date for Applications: Jan 22, 2025

Archive Date: Feb 21, 2025

Estimated Total Program Funding: $ 9,000,000

Award Ceiling: $1,500,000

Award Floor: $1,000,000

Eligibility

Eligible Applicants: Others (see text field entitled "Additional Information on Eligibility" for clarification)

Additional Information on Eligibility: *Who May Submit Proposals: Proposals may only be submitted by the
following: -Institutions of Higher Education (IHEs) - Two- and four-year IHEs (including community colleges)
accredited in, and having a campus located in the US, acting on behalf of their faculty members.Special Instructions
for International Branch Campuses of US IHEs: If the proposal includes funding to be provided to an international
branch campus of a US institution of higher education (including through use of subawards and consultant
arrangements), the proposer must explain the benefit(s) to the project of performance at the international branch
campus, and justify why the project activities cannot be performed at the US campus. *Who May Serve as PI: PIs or
co-PIs must hold primary, full-time, paid appointments in research or teaching positions at US-based
campuses/offices of IHEs eligible to submit to this solicitation (see above), with exceptions granted for family or
medical leave, as determined by the submitting institution. A minimum of three PIs or co-PIs must participate in
each proposal. Each PI/co-PI is expected to contribute complementary expertise relevant to the project proposed.
Investigators/Senior Personnel with expertise in fabrication, testing, or other sciences may be considered, where
appropriate. If there are strong collaborations with industry, the Grant Opportunities for Academic Liaison with
Industry (GOALI) type of proposal can be used in conjunction with this solicitation. See PAPPG Chapter II.F.5 for
additional information and guidance.

Additional Information

Agency Name: National Science Foundation

Link to Additional Information: NSF Publication 25-503

Grantor Contact Information: If you have difficulty accessing the full announcement electronically, please contact:

NSF grants.gov support

grantsgovsupport@nsf.gov

If you have any problems linking to this funding announcement, please contact the email address above.

***

Original text here: https://www.grants.gov/search-results-detail/356675

TARGETED NEWS SERVICE (founded 2004) features non-partisan 'edited journalism' news briefs and information
for news organizations, public policy groups and individuals; as well as 'gathered' public policy information,
including news releases, reports, speeches. For more information contact MYRON STRUCK, editor,
editor@targetednews.com, Springfield, Virginia; 703/304-1897; https://targetednews.com

-1762142

                                                                                              Page 4 of 4
            NSF Issues Grant Notice for Addressing Systems Challenges Through Engineering Teams


Load-Date: October 13, 2024


  
