

                                                                                                        Page 1 of 2
                  3AM Innovations and Somewear Labs Partner to Maximize Firefighter Accountability




      3AM Innovations and Somewear Labs Partner to Maximize Firefighter
                              Accountability
                                                           PR Newswire
                                         September 24, 2024 Tuesday 9:00 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 1062 words
Dateline: BUFFALO, N.Y., Sept. 24, 2024

Body


PR NewswireThe collaboration combines 3AM's FLORIAN platform for real-time personnel tracking with
Somewear's software-defined network to ensure safe and effective firefighting operationsBUFFALO, N.Y., Sept. 24,
2024 /PRNewswire-PRWeb/ --3AM Innovations, a leading technology company delivering advanced AI and 3D
technology solutions for the public safety sector, andSomewear Labs, an industry leader in resilient
communications for frontline teams, are proud to announce a new partnership. This collaboration leverages the
unparalleled personnel tracking capabilities of 3AM's FLORIAN platform and Somewear Labs' patented software-
defined network and multi-network hardware, to increase the safety and efficiency of firefighting teams."With the
increasing threat of wildland fires encroaching on urban environments, the need for collaboration in the public safety
tech space is greater than ever," - Patrick O'Connor, President and Co-founder 3AM InnovationsThis partnership
reaffirms 3AM's commitment to firefighter safety and accountability by empowering agencies to leverage their
preferred tracking technologies and seamlessly integrate the data into FLORIAN. This expanded interoperability
now includes Somewear's resilient mesh and satellite-powered solutions, ensuring continuous tracking and
communications in any environment.

Firefighters can now use their preferred tracking tools while FLORIAN consolidates all data into a unified, real-time
view, empowering first responders to make informed decisions in high-stakes environments, enhancing both
operational efficiency and personnel safety.Somewear Labs' first-of-its-kind multi-network device, Node, combines
the efficiency of mesh radios with the resilience of satellite technology, providing unprecedented network
redundancy. Somewear's routing logic, SmartRouting, manages communications across multiple networks—cell,
wifi, mesh, satellite—without requiring operator intervention, ensuring that firefighter tracking data is always
available in the FLORIAN platform. The availability of continuous real-time data at the command post and
Emergency Operations Center (EOC) allows for faster decision-making and coordinated responses, which are
essential in managing the fast-paced evolution of wildland fire."With the increasing threat of wildland fires
encroaching on urban environments, the need for collaboration in the public safety tech space is greater than ever,"
said Patrick O'Connor, President and Co-founder of 3AM Innovations. "This partnership with Somewear Labs is a
testament to that, combining our strengths to provide firefighters with every possible advantage on the
fireground.""Our partnership with 3AM Innovations demonstrates Somewear's open and flexible integration
framework that empowers us to connect with industry-leading situational awareness platforms like FLORIAN," said
James Kubik, Co-founder and CEO of Somewear Labs. "This collaboration reinforces our commitment to providing
a reliable software-defined network that delivers critical data directly into the operational workflows of first

                                                                                                        Page 2 of 2
                3AM Innovations and Somewear Labs Partner to Maximize Firefighter Accountability

responders, ensuring they have the information they need to make informed decisions in high-stakes
situations."This partnership is a solution to some of the key requirements laid out in theDingell Act, signed into law
in 2019 to improve wildfire management through advanced technology and better resource tracking. As wildfires
become more frequent and severe, this legislation underscores the need for innovative tools that reduce firefighter
risk, enhance resource management, and lower both human and financial costs.To further highlight the importance
of technology in wildfire management 3AM Innovations will be hosting an exclusive webinar "Navigating the Dingell
Act: Insights and Solutions for the Fire Service" featuring Ret. Chief Kim Zagaris of the Western Fire Chiefs
Association. The webinar will explore how tech innovators such as 3AM Innovations and Somewear Labs are
addressing the challenges posed by the Dingell Act, ultimately leading to safer and more efficient firefighting
operations.To view the Dingell Act webinar, and to learn more about FLORIAN, please visit3aminnovations.comFor
more information about Somewear Labs, please visitsomewearlabs.com. To view Somewear's Disaster
Management & Incident Response Symposium webinar "Prepare for the Unknown: Communications that will Work
in the Face of Disaster," clickhere.About 3AM Innovations3AM Innovations delivers advanced AI and 3D
technology solutions for the public safety sector. By empowering all public safety personnel with crucial information,
we support effective incident management. Furthermore, 3AM integrates its core incident command platform,
FLORIAN, with global partners to significantly expand its capabilities. We combine decades of incident command
experience with advanced technology. Ultimately transforming the organized chaos of an emergency into actionable
intelligence. To learn more about 3AM Innovations and our offerings, visitwww.3aminnovations.com.About
Somewear LabsSomewear's software platform and hardware enable commercial and government teams to
maintain situational awareness during high-pressure operations — in any environment. Somewear is headquartered
in San Francisco, CA and trusted by a wide range of customers, from helicopter paramedics to wildland firefighters,
to operators within the U.S. Department of Defense. The company's purpose is to build best-in-class solutions that
keep people in touch, informed, and safe anywhere in the world.About the Dingell ActThe Dingell Act, formally
known as the Conservation, Management, and Recreation Act, was signed into law in 2019 to improve wildfire
management through technological advances and better resource tracking. This legislation aims to equip and
prepare firefighters more effectively, reduce their exposure to risk, and lower both human and financial costs
associated with wildfires.John D. Dingell Jr. Conservation, Management, and Recreation Act | US Forest Service
(usda.gov)Media ContactEllie Bancroft, 3AM Innovations, 1 7168125616, ,www.3aminnovations.comKara Erwin,
Somewear         Labs,      ,https://somewearlabs.com            View      original      content     to      download
multimedia:https://www.prweb.com/releases/3am-innovations-and-somewear-labs-partner-to-maximize-firefighter-
accountability-302256744.htmlSOURCE 3AM Innovations


Load-Date: September 24, 2024


  
