

                                                                                                         Page 1 of 2
                  OWG Launches Parallax Private Cloud Desktop to Transform Business Operations




     OWG Launches Parallax Private Cloud Desktop to Transform Business
                                Operations
                                                           PR Newswire
                                         September 30, 2024 Monday 8:43 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 807 words
Dateline: MONTVILLE, N.J., Sept. 30, 2024

Body


PR NewswireSolution offers enhanced flexibility, security, and scalability for businesses of all sizesMONTVILLE,
N.J., Sept. 30, 2024 /PRNewswire/ --OWG, a leader in cloud solutions, today unveiledParallax Private Cloud
Desktopto provide businesses with superior IT solutions that ensure efficiency, security, and scalability. This next-
generation cloud platform is engineered to meet the most stringent security protocols, empowering businesses to
meet evolving IT challenges head-on.Brandon Marks, Managing Partner at OWG, emphasized the innovative
approach taken in developing the Parallax Private Cloud Desktop: "We listened to business leaders who were
craving more flexibility and control over their tech;they don't want to be dictated to and don't want to sacrifice
efficiency and security. So, we created a customizable solution that leverages advanced AI and next-generation
security while maintaining a simple, user-friendly interface. "TheParallax Private Cloud Desktopsimplifies, secures,
and scales business operations without the hassles of traditional IT infrastructure. It allows firms to streamline their
operations, significantly enhancing employee satisfaction, client experiences, and ultimately, the bottom line.

Key features of the Parallax Private Cloud Desktop include:Easy Access: Users can access their data and
applications from anywhere, at any time, via a familiar Windows Desktop.Secure Environment: With state-of-the-art
encryption (at rest and in transit), advanced AI-driven threat detection, disaster recovery options, and compliance
tools, businesses are well-equipped to meet stringent standards. Parallax is customizable to comply with various
security frameworks such as ISO, SOC, and HIPAA. OWG works collaboratively with compliance teams to ensure
each business adheres to regulatory requirements effortlessly.Data Sovereignty: Parallax ensures that businesses
maintain control of where their data is stored, whether it needs to remain within a specific geographic boundary or
jurisdiction for compliance purposes. This sovereignty feature is critical for businesses operating in highly regulated
industries such as finance and healthcare.Scalability and Flexibility: The platform is fully customizable and scales
with the needs of any organization, supporting growth and adaptation without the need for physical
infrastructure.Improved Experiences: Tools for better communication, self-service options, and quick system
updates ensure enhanced experiences for both customers and employees.Unique Customer Environments: Every
customer receives a dedicated environment, not shared with other customers, allowing for greater flexibility and
customization.Marks added, "Unlike off the shelf solutions, Parallax offers fully customized environments tailored to
each business's unique needs. It's not just about providing technology but offering a strategic platform that aligns
with your business goals."For businesses new to cloud computing, OWG assures a smooth transition, handling all
complexities involved in migrating to the cloud, minimizing the effort required from the client's side and maximizing
the potential benefits. Unlike many competitors, OWG does not force customers to use their IT services to maintain

                                                                                                    Page 2 of 2
                OWG Launches Parallax Private Cloud Desktop to Transform Business Operations

their Parallax Private Cloud. Clients have the freedom to manage their environment independently or choose their
preferred IT service provider, eliminating vendor lock-in."We have built and managed environments on many of the
leading virtual desktop infrastructure platforms over the years for our clients. Most of the legacy platforms have
limitations on what applications you can install, how much storage or speed you can have, and what settings you
can change," stated Nick Rigali, Operating Partner at OWG. "With Parallax Private Cloud, we can run almost any
app that will run on Windows - storage, speed and preferences can be customized per user to their liking and
needs. We don't squeeze our clients into a box, but instead we build the box that fits their needs on our Parallax
platform."To     learn   more      about    Parallax    Private  Cloud     Desktop    or    schedule     a   demo,
visithttps://weareowg.com/parallax-private-cloud-desktop-pr/About OWGOWGhas been a pioneer in cloud
solutions since 2009, continuously evolving to meet the needs of its clients across various industries. With a
commitment to ethical practices and community support, OWG stands out in the technology sector. The company's
proven expertise in Microsoft Azure, coupled with its international reach and deep local connections, makes it a
preferred partner for businesses around the globe.Press Contact:
Martha Ximena: 973-774-0055, View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-
releases/owg-launches-parallax-private-cloud-desktop-to-transform-business-operations-302261993.htmlSOURCE
OWG


Load-Date: September 30, 2024


  
