

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 3
    Sidus Space Selected to Exclusively Build Lonestar Data Holdings Lunar Data Storage Spacecraft Fleet Six
                            LizzieSat(TM) lunar spacecraft to enable critical data ....




  Sidus Space Selected to Exclusively Build Lonestar Data Holdings Lunar
 Data Storage Spacecraft Fleet; Six LizzieSat(TM) lunar spacecraft to enable
            critical data storage and disaster recovery solutions
                                                   Business Wire
                                     November 12, 2024 Tuesday 1:30 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 945 words
Dateline: CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla.

Body


Sidus Space (NASDAQ: SIDU), (the "Company" or "Sidus"), an innovative space mission enabler, today announced
it has been selected to design and build the first generation of Data Storage Spacecraft for Lonestar, a provider of
premium data storage and Resiliency As A Service (RAAS). This award selects Sidus as Lonestar's exclusive
satellite manufacturing partner for six data storage spacecraft that will orbit the Moon, offering advanced data
storage and disaster recovery capabilities for mission-critical information.

Under the terms of the agreement, Sidus will manage the design, payload integration, planning, and on-orbit
support for each of the six satellites. The spacecraft will be specifically designed to meet Lonestar's high standards
for secure, redundant data storage solutions, positioning Lonestar as a leading provider of deep space data storage
services for high-stakes applications.

"This award by Lonestar demonstrates Sidus' ability to scale our LizzieSat(TM) platform to meet the constellation
manufacturing and operational needs of diverse customers," said Carol Craig, CEO of Sidus Space. "Our flexible
and adaptable approach to satellite design allows us to support unique and mission-critical requirements, making
Sidus an ideal partner for organizations seeking resilient, cost-effective solutions for their space-based data and
infrastructure needs."

Lonestar provides cutting-edge data storage and Resiliency As A Service (RAAS) solutions, ensuring that clients
with mission-critical data needs are equipped with robust, reliable storage capabilities. The six lunar LizzieSat(TM)
spacecraft will serve to safeguard essential data while providing a scalable platform for future space-based data
storage needs.

"This agreement represents a significant step forward in our vision for premium data storage and Resiliency As A
Service from space," said Chris Stott, Lonestar Founder and CEO. "Sidus' unique AI capability along with its
vertical integration expertise in mission-critical satellite operations makes them an ideal partner to deliver on our
commitment to secure, resilient storage solutions beyond Earth and especially as we build out our growing footprint
here in Florida."

                                                                                                  Page 2 of 3
    Sidus Space Selected to Exclusively Build Lonestar Data Holdings Lunar Data Storage Spacecraft Fleet Six
                            LizzieSat(TM) lunar spacecraft to enable critical data ....

The lunar LizzieSat(TM) mission aligns with Sidus' goal of reimagining space access through flexible and innovative
solutions and reinforces its position as a space mission enabler. Click here for a video about Lonestar's Lunar data
solution that Sidus will support.

About Sidus Space

Sidus Space (NASDAQ: SIDU) is a space mission enabler providing flexible, cost-effective solutions including
custom satellite design, payload hosting, mission management, space manufacturing and AI enhanced space-
based sensor data-as-a-service. With its mission of Space Access Reimagined(TM), Sidus Space is committed to
rapid innovation, adaptable and cost-effective solutions, and the optimization of space system and data collection
performance. With demonstrated space heritage including manufacturing and operating its own satellite and sensor
system, LizzieSat(TM), Sidus Space serves government, defense, intelligence and commercial companies around
the globe. Strategically headquartered on Florida's Space Coast, Sidus Space operates a 35,000-square-foot space
manufacturing, assembly, integration and testing facility and provides easy access to nearby launch facilities.

For more information, visit: https://www.sidusspace.com

About Lonestar:

Lonestar Data Holdings is a pioneering data center infrastructure company that offers a groundbreaking approach
to data storage and data security. Lonestar provides resilient data storage solutions, that are compliant with data-
sovereignty requirements globally, and are designed to protect critical information from cyberattack, natural
disasters, and nation-state threats. After making history with the world's first software-defined data operations on
the Moon in 2024, the company continues to lead advancements in edge processing and data storage in lunar orbit,
while maintaining a strong commitment to sustainability with solar-powered and carbon-neutral operations.

Forward-Looking Statements

Statements in this press release about future expectations, plans and prospects, as well as any other statements
regarding matters that are not historical facts, may constitute 'forward-looking statements' within the meaning of The
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements
relating to the expected trading commencement and closing dates. The words 'anticipate,' 'believe,' 'continue,'
'could,' 'estimate,' 'expect,' 'intend,' 'may,' 'plan,' 'potential,' 'predict,' 'project,' 'should,' 'target,' 'will,' 'would' and
similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements
contain these identifying words. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking
statements as a result of various important factors, including: the uncertainties related to market conditions and
other factors described more fully in the section entitled 'Risk Factors' in Sidus Space's Annual Report on Form 10-
K for the year ended December 31, 2023, and other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Any forward-looking statements contained in this press release speak only as of the date hereof, and
Sidus Space, Inc. specifically disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result
of new information, future events or otherwise.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20241112356353/en/


CONTACT: Sidus Investor Relations

investorrelations@sidusspace.com Sidus Media Inquiries

press@sidusspace.com Lonestar Data Holding Media
Stephen Eisele

Media@lonestarlunar.com

                                                                                                 Page 3 of 3
   Sidus Space Selected to Exclusively Build Lonestar Data Holdings Lunar Data Storage Spacecraft Fleet Six
                           LizzieSat(TM) lunar spacecraft to enable critical data ....

www.lonestarlunar.com


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: November 12, 2024


  
