

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 18
      Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific and International Cybersecurity Policy
                          Hearing "Cyberspace Under Threat in the Era of Rising Aut....




    Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific and
International Cybersecurity Policy Hearing; "Cyberspace Under Threat in the
   Era of Rising Authoritarianism and Global Competition."; Testimony by
  Jamil Jaffer, Founder and Executive Director, National Security Institute,
                              Arlington, Virginia
                                           Congressional Documents and Publications
                                                         September 24, 2024



Copyright 2024 Federal Information and News Dispatch, Inc.

Section: U.S. SENATE DOCUMENTS
Length: 13178 words

Body


I. Introduction

Chairman Van Hollen, Ranking Member Romney, and Members of the Subcommittee: thank you for inviting me
here today to discuss the threats our nation and our allies and partners face in the cyber domain, particularly from
authoritarian regimes across the globe that seek to replace the United States as a key international leader.

I want to thank the Chairman and Ranking Member for holding this hearing, given the increasing drumbeat of
threats that our nation and other free and open societies face from nations like China, Russia, Iran, and North
Korea in the cyber domain. The regimes that control these nations form the core of a growing group of global
repressors, nations that repress their own people at home, and then seek to extend that repression abroad,
oftentimes not only within their own region but increasingly across the globe as well. Both of you have exhibited
strong leadership on the issues at the core of this hearing, including ensuring that America leans forward and leads
in the international realm, serving as the strongest ally to our friends and the fiercest foe to our adversaries. As you
both well know, the promotion and protection of our national interests, including the protection of our citizens and
the critical infrastructure they rely upon could not be more important in this era of expanding authoritarianism and
rapidly evolving technologies. It is likewise critically important that, as a global leader, we also defend the
democratic principles that undergird free and open societies globally, including the core concepts of free speech,
economic liberty, and the rule of law. We must also guard vigilantly against repressive efforts by these regimes as
they seek to undermine these democratic principles by depriving their own people and, increasingly, others around
the globe, of access to economic freedom and the kind of basic rights that characterize free and open societies.

Chairman Van Hollen, you are well known for your work in this space, including your bipartisan BRINK Act, which
requires the imposition of sanctions on the foreign banks and companies that facilitate illegal financial transactions
with North Korea, your advocacy to hold the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), which controls the People's Republic
of China (PRC) with an iron fist, accountable for its attacks on freedom and democracy in Hong Kong and

                                                                                                  Page 2 of 18
      Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific and International Cybersecurity Policy
                          Hearing "Cyberspace Under Threat in the Era of Rising Aut....

elsewhere, and your efforts to hold other authoritarian regimes accountable as they seek to expand their repression
globally, including by targeting American elections. You also recognize the critical importance of ensuring that
American remains competitive and that our critical edge is America's ability to rapidly innovate and that we must
protect that innovation with a strong intellectual property system, so thank you for your leadership in those areas as
well.

And Ranking Member Romney, you've long been a leading voice on American foreign policy, advocating for
policies that promote our economic and national security and that of our allies and partners. You have been one of
the primary leaders in our nation--whether during your time as Governor, as a candidate for President, and now in
the Senate--that has always been clear-eyed and direct with the American people about the very real threat that we
face from nations like Russia, China, Iran, and North Korea. Even when it was unpopular to do so, you have called
out these nations for their bad behavior and highlighted the threat they pose to our nation. Whether it was your
successful effort to impose a diplomatic boycott during the 2022 Winter Olympics in Beijing or your calling out of
Russia from the debate stage over a decade ago--presaging Russia's multiple invasions of Ukraine--no one can
doubt where you stand on these issues and the critical importance of your leadership.

Mr. Chairman and Mr. Ranking Member, your bipartisan leadership and continued work together on this
Subcommittee is critical to highlighting the many ways that these global repressors have sought to take advantage
of our nation's free and open society--particularly in the cyber domain and with respect to emerging technologies--in
order to gain political, economic, technological, and military advantage, including in the context of the larger
strategic competition taking place across the globe.

And as the members of the Subcommittee know all too well, China is the key economic and national security
challenge facing our nation going forward, and its ongoing and expanding collaboration with other global
repressors, including in the cyber domain and with respect to emerging technologies, is at the heart of these
matters. I hope this hearing will offer us the opportunity to have a candid and frank discussion on these important
matters.

I. The Overall Threat Posed by a Rising China and its Collaboration with Other Global Repressors in the Cyber
Domain and on Emerging Technologies

As I testified last week before the House Select Committee on the Chinese Communist Party and earlier this year
before the Senate Banking Committee, the threat of a rising China, under the leadership of the CCP, is the defining
national security challenge facing the United States and our allies today. n3 Like other global repressors, the PRC,
under the direction and control of the CCP, is a nation that not only oppresses its own people, but pushes that
repression well beyond its borders, not just in the Indo-Pacific region, but across the globe as well. The genocide
and crimes against humanity currently underway against Muslim Uyghurs in the Xinjiang region are but one
example of the type of repressive activities that take place within the borders of CCP-controlled China, activities that
also include the brutal repression of dissent and political, economic, and religious freedom in Hong Kong and Tibet.
n4

The global scale of the CCP's repression is vast, as can be seen in the PRC's near-constant drumbeat of military
and economic threats against Taiwan, n5 its hostile actions and active threats towards other U.S. allies and
partners globally, n6 its export of surveillance technologies and other repressive capabilities to authoritarian-leaning
regimes worldwide, n7 its ongoing efforts to consolidate control over and withhold access to key critical minerals
and strategic metals, n8 its extortion of dozens of countries under the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), n9 and its
growing political, economic, and military relationships with other global repressors like Russia, Iran, and North
Korea. n10

But this litany of activities is only the beginning of the CCP's larger and more hidden effort to undermine our nation's
security. The CCP has also long engaged in the broad-based theft of intellectual property from American and allied
private sector companies to benefit its own economic base, n11 and the PRC's deep and expanding cyber
infiltration of U.S. and allied critical infrastructure, n12 as well as its active installation of capabilities to hold such

                                                                                                  Page 3 of 18
      Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific and International Cybersecurity Policy
                          Hearing "Cyberspace Under Threat in the Era of Rising Aut....

critical infrastructure at risk, n13 together pose a clear and present danger to our economic and national security.
Likewise, the CCP has actively sought to recruit American and allied academics and intellectuals through its
Thousand Talents Program n14 and has sought to shape minds of students through its establishment of hundreds
of Confucius Institutes across the globe. n15

For the purposes of today's hearing, I'd like to focus on three area where the CCP seeks in particular to undermine
U.S. interests in the cyber and emerging technologies domain: (1) the effort by China to embed its technologies
around the globe in an effort to collect intelligence and influence political, economic, and military conditions; (2) the
way the CCP is likely to exploit emerging technologies, like artificial intelligence, steal intellectual property, and
use extortive efforts to undermine U.S. and allied leadership globally; and (3) the CCP's holding at risk of American
and allied critical infrastructure in the cyber domain and to influence American and allied views. And I'd also like to
highlight how China and other global repressors, like Russia, use international institutions, like the U.N. and various
advisory committees and boards to also achieve their own ends. Finally, I'd like to focus on how we might usefully
address some of these issues.

II. China's Effort to Embed its Technologies Around the Globe in an Effort to Collect Intelligence and Influence
Political, Economic, and Military Conditions.

China's ongoing and widespread effort to embed its technologies around the globe can be seen in numerous places
across the globe. For example, the effort to embed Huawei and ZTE gear in the telecommunications networks of
Western countries, including successful efforts in a number of U.S. states as well as at the heart of the British
Telecom and other allied networks, and has been well-understood for over a decade. n16 Indeed, as far back as
March 2015, as part of its Belt-and-Road Initiative, China announced a Digital Silk Road effort--ostensibly to provide
aid to other nations to improve their telecom networks, AI capabilities, cloud computing, and surveillance
technology, among other things--that puts Chinese national champions, like Huawei, deep in those networks. n17
Capabilities like these--which provide direct access into the core of the telecommunications networks--can be
hugely valuable to our adversaries as a tool to collect massive amounts of information and intelligence, as well as to
conduct actual offensive cyber attacks that can delete, destroy, or modify information and even take down entire
networks. n18 Yet many nation-states have taken a while to understand the very real threat these capabilities pose
to their national security and some continue to install these systems at the heart of their networks. n19 Indeed,
according to one source, as of two years ago, "Huawei and its components comprise almost 70% of the total 4G
networks across the [African] continent." n20

Likewise, Congress and two successive Administrations have highlighted the very real threat that social media
applications, like TikTok, pose to our national security. n21 This national security threat is described in extensive
detail in an amicus brief that was filed on my behalf and that of well over a dozen other former U.S. government
national security officials--including two former U.S. Attorneys General and a former U.S. National Cyber Director--
in litigation brought by TikTok in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. n22 That
brief, which supported the U.S. government's position defending legislation signed into law earlier this year, is
attached as an appendix to this testimony. The brief argues, in relevant part, that TikTok's extensive collection on
data on Americans and our allies, its close ties to the CCP and the PRC government, and the CCP's influence over
TikTok's algorithm, which has previously pushed proChinese and anti-American content as well as actively
suppressed anti-CCP content, means that TikTok, "presents a serious and unique national security threat to the
United States." n23

And while many Americans view TikTok as a tool for kid's dance videos and short-form entertainment, the sad
reality is that over the course of the last decade, this Chinese-government influenced tool has become the primary
source of news for Americans under the age of 30, n24 a fact that should deeply trouble all of us. Even more
concerning, given the massive amount of data that TikTok collects on its users, when combined with other data
stolen by Chinese government hackers targeting the U.S. federal government, including the security clearance files
thousands of current and former U.S. government officials holding Top Secret-Sensitive Compartmented
Information (TS/SCI) clearances, and private companies holding sensitive financial, health, and travel data of
millions of Americans, it is clear that TikTok's data--when fed into modern artificial intelligence algorithms--can

                                                                                                  Page 4 of 18
      Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific and International Cybersecurity Policy
                          Hearing "Cyberspace Under Threat in the Era of Rising Aut....

help drive future sophisticated intelligence collection and disinformation campaigns targeting American citizens and
our allies. n25 Indeed, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ONDI) recently indicated that "China is
demonstrating a higher degree of sophistication in its influence activity, including experimenting with generative AI,"
and noted that "TikTok accounts run by a PRC propaganda arm reportedly targeted candidates from both political
parties during the U.S. midterm election cycle in 2022." n26

III. China's Exploitation of Emerging Technologies, Theft of Intellectual Property, and Use of Extortive Efforts to
Undermine U.S. and Allied Leadership Globally

Likewise, at the core of the national security threat that the PRC poses to the United States, as well as our global
competition with China for supremacy--whether in the economic, political, military, or social spheres--is
technological innovation, including access to and control over critical emerging technologies, particularly in the
artificial intelligence domain. n27 In recent decades, the PRC has made aggressive moves to build its own
technological innovation base and now seeks to expand those capabilities. n28 Much of this effort by the PRC
initially began by actively seeking to dominate the manufacturing market for technology goods, producing
equipment at costs well below those achievable in most other economies. n29 This was achieved, in significant
part, by exploiting the PRC's theft of U.S. intellectual property at industrial scale--referred to as the greatest transfer
of wealth in modern human history n30 --which was then leveraged to create an entire industry of state-owned and
state-influenced enterprises that, when combined today, generate a tremendous amount of the technology products
and capabilities sold around the globe, including producing goods on behalf of a number of highly innovative
American companies, competing with others, and replacing or coopting yet others in the global market. n31 Worse
still, the PRC is now going well beyond manufacturing-at-scale and is creating innovation on top of this stolen IP
and securing its access to data, as it recognizes that whichever nation dominates the technology revolution--
particularly in emerging technology areas like quantum computing, biotechnology, and artificial intelligence (the
latter of which is particularly data reliant)--will likely also win the larger geopolitical competition. n32

A key aspect of the PRC's effort to lead in the technology domain is its centralized planning efforts that have been
in place for well over a decade, including its Made in China 2025 line of effort ("PRC 2025"), a "broad set of
industrial plans that aim to boost competitiveness by advancing China's position in the global manufacturing value
chain, 'leapfrogging' into emerging technologies, and reducing reliance on foreign firms." n33 This effort aims to
enable China to "make major technology breakthroughs, lead innovation in specific industries, and set global
standards" by 2035 and "[l]ead global manufacturing and innovation with a competitive position in advanced
technology and industrial systems" by 2049, with key areas of focus including next generation IT and
telecommunications capabilities, high performance computing, advanced robotics, and artificial intelligence. n34
And in the critically important AI domain, China released a plan back in 2017--long before the public advent of
highly-capable generative AI in 2022 and even well prior to the enactment of the U.S. National AI Initiative Act of
2020--to "lead the world in AI by 2030." n35 While ostensibly emphasizing domestic development in these national
plans, it is clear that the PRC plans to continue to rely on the "acquisition, absorption, and adaptation of foreign
technology by PRC entities that recast these capabilities as their own," n36 and then build upon these stolen
technologies to create additional innovation.

And in February of this year, the Director of National Intelligence released her Annual Threat Assessment, which
she describes China's efforts to "become a world [science and technology] superpower and to use this
technological superiority for economic, political, and military gain." n37 According to ODNI, "Beijing is trying to fast-
track its SandT development through investments, intellectual property (IP) acquisition and theft, cyber operations,
talent recruitment, scientific and academic collaboration, and illicit procurements," and noted specifically that "[i]n
2023, a key PRC state-owned enterprise has signaled its intention to channel at least $13.7 billion into emerging
industries such as AI, advanced semiconductors, biotechnology, and new materials." n38

As noted above, China's acquisition of U.S. and allied emerging technology takes place through a range of vectors:
(1) outright theft of intellectual property; n39 (2) forced technology transfer from companies seeking to enter the
Chinese market; n40 (3) requiring new market entrants to establish joint ventures with PRC companies; n41 (4)
requiring sensitive IP to be kept in China; n42 (5) tax incentives to get production and Randamp;D moved to China;

                                                                                                  Page 5 of 18
      Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific and International Cybersecurity Policy
                          Hearing "Cyberspace Under Threat in the Era of Rising Aut....

n43 (6) acquisition of American and allied companies with sensitive technologies directly or through bankruptcy
proceedings; n44 (7) corporate and government partnerships with U.S. companies, universities, and individual
experts or academics, including through PRC talent programs and educational pipeline work; n45 and (8) joining
and setting the agenda for international standards setting bodies. n46 And China has doubled down on these
efforts, making clear that it will continue to exploit its foreign research connections, use domestic regulatory
measures and influence abroad in areas like antitrust, IP, and international standards, n47 as well as make massive
investments into key emerging technology areas, including quantum computing, robotics, artificial intelligence,
and cybersecurity, n48 both directly and by offering low-interest and no-interest loans and massive state-driven
subsidies--totaling well-over a trillion dollars--to enable its companies to compete more favorably in global markets,
n49 while also using board seats to influence corporate decision-making. n50

We know also that China continues to build out its STEM workforce, proactively recruiting leading STEM players
from around the world, n51 and, having already passed the U.S. in the number of annual Ph.Ds awarded many
years back, some estimate that the PRC may annually graduate nearly double the number of STEM Ph.Ds as the
U.S. in the near future. n52 All of these efforts are also buttressed by China's longer-term efforts to secure its
access to critical minerals, strategic metals, and energy resources, from production to processing, n53 and its
parallel efforts to exclude U.S. and allied partners from access to such resources, all of which are critical to our
technological and industrial innovation base. n54

IV. China's Effort to Hold American and Allied Critical Infrastructure at Risk and Influence American and Allied
Views

According to ODNI, "China remains the most active and persistent cyber threat to U.S. Government, private-sector,
and critical infrastructure networks." n55 ODNI noted that "PRC operations discovered by the U.S. private sector
probably were intended to pre-position cyber attacks against infrastructure in Guam and to enable disrupting
communications between the United States and Asia" and it assesses that "[i]f Beijing believed that a major conflict
with the United States were imminent, it would consider aggressive cyber operations against U.S. critical
infrastructure and military assets...[in] a strike [that] would be designed to deter U.S. military action by impeding
U.S. decisionmaking, inducing societal panic, and interfering with the deployment of U.S. forces." n56

And just a few days earlier, the FBI Director had gone perhaps further saying, "[t]here has been far too little public
focus on the fact that PRC hackers are targeting our critical infrastructure-- our water treatment plants, our electrical
grid, our oil and natural gas pipelines, our transportation systems--and the risk that poses to every American..
..China's hackers are positioning on American infrastructure in preparation to wreak havoc and cause real-world
harm to American citizens and communities." n57 Providing a bit more detail on the targeting of American
infrastructure, the FBI Director explained that the FBI and "our partners identified hundreds of routers that had been
taken over by the PRC state-sponsored hacking group known as Volt Typhoon," which contained "malware [that]
enabled China to hide, among other things, pre-operational reconnaissance and network exploitation against critical
infrastructure like our communications, energy, transportation, and water sectors." According to the FBI Director,
these efforts represented "[s]teps China was taking. to find and prepare to destroy or degrade the civilian critical
infrastructure that keeps us safe and prosperous . representing] real-world threats to our physical safety." n58

And the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA), in a document jointly released by CISA, FBI,
NSA, and a number of other federal and foreign intelligence agencies from Australia and New Zealand, indicated
that this new posture--installing capabilities that could have a clear potential disruptive effect--said, "Typhoon's
choice of targets and pattern of behavior is not consistent with traditional cyber espionage or intelligence gathering
operations, and the U.S. authoring agencies assess with high confidence that Volt Typhoon actors are
prepositioning themselves on IT networks to enable lateral movement to OT assets to disrupt functions." n59

And just a few days ago, the FBI announced that it had taken down a widespread Chinese botnet, associated with a
threat actor named Flax Typhoon which had infected over a quarter-million devices across North America, South
America, Europe, Africa, Southeast Asia and Australia with malware. n60 This botnet, which was ostensibly focused
on espionage, not disruption, nonetheless demonstrated the scale and access of Chinese hacking, with over half

                                                                                                  Page 6 of 18
      Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific and International Cybersecurity Policy
                          Hearing "Cyberspace Under Threat in the Era of Rising Aut....

the devices, made up of "home routers, firewalls, storage devices, and Internet of Things devices lik e cameras and
video recorders," being located in the U.S. And, perhaps more troublingly, the FBI noted that the Flax Typhoon
actors "shared some of the infrastructure for its attacks" with the Volt Typhoon actors. n61

Moreover, it's not just hacking or disruptive attacks that are in play; we also increasingly see the CCP actively
taking a page out of the Russian covert influence playbook by seeking to, in the words of ODNI, "sow doubts about
U.S. leadership, undermine democracy, and extend Beijing's influence." n62 According to ODNI, "Beijing's
information operations primarily focus on promoting pro-China narratives, refuting U.S.-promoted narratives, and
countering U.S. and other countries' policies that threaten Beijing's interests, including China's international image,
access to markets, and technological expertise" and that it is now also seeking to "actively exploit perceived U.S.
societal divisions using its online personas" and "mold U.S. public discourse--particularly on core sovereignty
issues, such as Hong Kong, Taiwan, Tibet, and Xinjiang," while also potentially seeking to "influence the U.S.
elections in 2024 at some level because of its desire to sideline critics of China and magnify U.S. societal divisions."
n63

All of these efforts demonstrate a commitment on the part of the CCP to get significantly more aggressive in the
cyber domain, even as we recall that back in 2019, ODNI assessed that "China has the ability to launch cyber
attacks that cause localized, temporary disruptive effects on critical infrastructure--such as disruption of a natural
gas pipeline for days to weeks--in the United States" and that Russia could do much of the same with respect to
electrical distribution networks, while Iran could also do much the same to a large company's corporate network.
n64

V. China and Russia's Efforts to Use the International System to Achieve Their Goals

Finally, it may also be worth noting the efforts of China and Russia to use the international system, including the
U.N. and various international standards setting bodies to achieve their own goals. China, for its part, has engaged
in an effort to obtain additional influence in global organizations technical standard-setting bodies "by increasing the
number of Chinese officials, technocrats, and private sector leaders for key leadership positions in major working
groups and technical committees of international technical standard-setting bodies" n65 which it reportedly has
used to "push[] for the acceptance of Chinese businesses' standards as the de facto international technical
standards in several crucial sectors," and its "'Standards 2035' project also aims for the country to go global with its
technical standards, especially by strategically employing its high-level officials and leaders of domestic technology
enterprises at the organizations responsible for determining global technical standards." n66 And more recently,
according ODNI, "China also announced [an] Global AI Governance Initiative to bolster international support for its
vision of AI governance." n67

Russia and China also recently got a significant win in the international realm with respect to a major cyber policy
initiative, the U.N. Convention Against Cybercrime, with the Russian-led text--with some compromise language, to
be fair--being adopted by consensus action of the Ad-Hoc Committee on Cybercrime last month. n68 For years, the
United States pushed back against the Russian-proposed language and process, which it historically viewed as
being overly aggressive and subject to manipulation and abuse by authoritarian regimes. n69 While the U.S.
supported certain provisions of the treaty as being an appropriate exercise of law enforcement authority for nation-
sates, as at larger level, the U.S. did not support the treaty because it lacked the type of rule-of-law safeguards that
American laws typically contain. n70 More recently, however, the U.S. backed off this position and allowed the Ad-
Hoc Committee to push the Russian-led language out by consensus. n71 As the convention heads to the General
Assembly for approval and, if approved, ratification by just over three dozen countries for entry into force, there has
been a significant backlash from both industry and non-governmental organizations, and there is some possibility
that the convention may get further delayed or halted, particularly if the United States returns to its prior position of
objecting to the convention writ large. n72

VI. Potential Responses to Consider in Addressing the Threats Posed By Global Repressors in the Cyber and
Emerging Technologies Domains

                                                                                                 Page 7 of 18
     Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific and International Cybersecurity Policy
                         Hearing "Cyberspace Under Threat in the Era of Rising Aut....

Given all this, one might ask what ought be done to address these very real challenges. Below are a few initial
thoughts.

1. Provide Appropriations for Basic Science Research and Workforce Development. The U.S. government has long
been one of the key seed funders of critical basic science research in American universities and industry, and this
has led to major breakthroughs in areas where countries like China now seek to compete including in
biotechnology, high-performance computing, quantum computing, and artificial intelligence. n73 Ensuring that
some of the key provisions in the CHIPS and Science Act and other such legislation, including funding for next
generation communications technologies and artificial intelligence, continues to be provided is critical. n74

2. Avoid Taking Action that Would Limit Private Sector RandD Spending and Instead Incentivize It in Critical Areas.
Today, the private sector represents 70% of all RandD expenditures in the United States, with technology
companies leading the way, making up seven of the top ten RandD spenders, including all of the top five. n75 Core
RandD spending, along with our permissive economic and legal environment and the availability of significant
amounts of venture and growth capital, as well as a highly- skilled workforce, is what makes America the
technology innovation hub of the globe. These capabilities are not only at the heart of our economic success, they
are also a core reason why our national defense capabilities remain relatively unmatched across the globe today. If
we are to compete effectively with the PRC, we need to incentivize, not limit the capabilities of the top RandD
investors in the U.S., including the technology companies that are in the top five RandD spenders in the nation. To
do so, we must avoid the temptation to artificially restrain successful innovators in the absence of actual,
demonstrable bad behavior, while also providing new tax and other economic incentives for increased private
RandD investment-- both for new entrants as well as existing players that can scale--in a range of areas like high-
performance computing, quantum technology, AI/ML, trust, safety, and security, and the design and production, in
the United States and allied nations, of leading-edge semiconductor capabilities.

3. Incentivize Technology Infrastructure Investment. For the better part of the last six decades, the United States
has benefited significantly from being the core hub of the global telecommunications infrastructure. As the place
where much of the world's telecommunications systems come together, particularly when it comes to global Internet
traffic, the United States has been able to innovate rapidly and gain both economic and national security benefits
from this convergence. n76 t is critical that the government provide the right incentivizes for industry to build out
both domestic and allied computing and communications infrastructure and invest in the capacity and innovation to
deliver such capabilities globally while also continuing efforts to rip and replace adversary gear, whether it is in
state, local or allied systems. To that end, the government should provide tax and other economic incentives for
increased private investment in the development of such technologies, the broader deployment of large-scale
computing infrastructure to support cloud and edge computing, the replacement of adversary technology, and the
expansion of AI capabilities being made available to U.S. and allied innovators.

4. Maintain U.S. Capacity for Innovation. Ensuring that the United States is able to access the underlying
manufacturing capacity and workforce necessary to support a modern technology and communications
infrastructure--including consistent access to semiconductors, critical minerals, and other core materials necessary
to support major technological innovation--will also be of strategic importance to the United States in the coming
years. It is critical that government and industry work together to create the right tax and regulatory incentives to
ensure that American and allied companies invest their money here (and in allied nations) to create much-needed
capacity and to ensure that we have the skilled workers necessary to build and maintain this capacity.

5. Avoid Harmful Overregulation. To ensure that the United States remains a leader in technology innovation, it is
critical that the United States avoid adopting significant new regulatory or administrative policies that would
undermine the ability of the United States to effectively compete on a global scale. Efforts in recent years to amend
longstanding and highly effective antitrust laws that have served our economy well for decades, n77 are a key
example of the kind of new policies that would be highly detrimental in the context of the ongoing economic and
national security competition with China. These efforts, which target a handful of technology companies based on
the nature and scale of their business, are largely driven by policy issues unrelated to innovation or competition.
n78 As such, they would likely undermine the very companies that have the largest potential to benefit the United

                                                                                                 Page 8 of 18
     Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific and International Cybersecurity Policy
                         Hearing "Cyberspace Under Threat in the Era of Rising Aut....

States and our allies by posing the biggest threat to the PRC's effort to win the technology competition and sends
exactly the wrong message to new entrants: namely, that if small, innovative businesses thrive and become highly
successful, expanding not through unfair competition, but through market success, the government might seek to
target them for special attention, creating laws to cut them down to size. n79 To the extent there are concerns that
market power actually is being used to undermine competition, existing law--and the longstanding consumer
welfare standard that undergirds them--when used appropriately, can effectively address these concerns. n80

6. Avoid Being Tempted By the European Model. There are those who argue that the US. ought enact laws like the
General Data Protection Regulations, the Digital Markets Act, the Digital Services Act, and the AI Act in order to
make sure we are keeping up on the latest in regulatory creep. n81 The reality, however, if one looks at the
economic and innovation scoreboard as between the United States and Europe--when looking at GDP growth, the
creation of highly successful, highly innovative businesses, or building private companies whose technology
innovations have a massive benefit for national and economic security--it tilts decisively in favor of the U.S. today,
as it has for the last five decades at least. n82 Unlike Europe, which often seeks to drive specific market outcomes,
the United States has generally sought to institute a broadly applicable set of rules designed to ensure that all
market participants compete fairly. Sticking with the traditional American approach is the right way to go.

7. Incentivize AI and Emerging Technology Innovation and Focusing Any Regulation Only on Critical Gaps. The
approach that best protects U.S. national and economic security in AI and emerging technology is one that allows
innovation to flourish, stepping cautiously to address legitimate concerns where regulation is warranted and
appropriate, based on traditional considerations like a demonstrable market failure. Rather than rushing to broad-
based regulation, as the European Parliament has recently, the wiser approach, consistent with the American
approach to innovation, would be to identify potential regulatory need, assesses whether regulation is necessary
and appropriate, and prioritize the voluntary adoption of industry-driven frameworks, before moving to a regulatory
posture, which in turn would build upon the voluntary frameworks. n83 While much has been written about the
potential of AI to cause significant harm, the fact is that AI has the potential to have a transformative effect on
human society, raising all boats and allowing a broad range of workers to do mundane tasks more efficiently while
freeing innovators to create even more productive tools and capabilities. n84 As such, the best approach on AI may
be the more cautious one: encouraging those closest to the actual creation of the technology to craft potential
frameworks and industry best practices that might guide the trusted, safe, and secure development and
implementation of these technologies.

8. Stop Investing in Our Adversaries. In 2022, the total U.S. foreign direct investment in China was $126.1 billion,
an increase of more than $10 billion from the prior year. n85 American companies have made major investments in
leading-edge Chinese companies, including in the artificial intelligence arena, and by one metric, U.S. investors
"accounted for nearly a fifth of investment deals in Chinese AI/ML companies from 2015 to 2021. " n86 We must
take sustainable action to limit on outbound investment from the U.S. in critical industries like high performance
computing, semiconductors, critical minerals, cloud computing, artificial intelligence, and quantum computing, to
name just a few.

9. Growing a STEM-Capable Workforce By Investing Here and Fixing Our Broken Immigration System. The U.S.
must take action to grow our STEM workforce, including continuing appropriate funding the workforce-related
programs authorized in the CHIPS and Science Act and directing new and existing resources to the states in form
of block grants to be used through public schools, public charter schools, and private institutions. n87 We must also
incentivize those who come from abroad to study here to stay here, develop their new technology, and build
businesses in the United States, rather than forcing them to back home. One of the nation's most enduring
achievements is our "ability to attract and retain some of the world's best STEM talent...[that can] drive research
and development efforts," yet our current immigration system makes little sense, because it allows a wide range of
undergraduate and graduate students to benefit from our world-class higher education system, but then--with
exception of the small number that are able to obtain H-1B visas or otherwise stay in the United States--requires
them to return home to build businesses abroad. n88 This poorly thought-out policy actually forces American
companies to hire high-skilled workers abroad and deprives our own economy of the benefits of their employment

                                                                                                  Page 9 of 18
      Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific and International Cybersecurity Policy
                          Hearing "Cyberspace Under Threat in the Era of Rising Aut....

here, including the tax revenues and spending of these high-skilled, high-wage workers who could easily be vetted
to address any potential IP theft and foreign intelligence concerns. n89

10. Set a Clear, Declaratory Cyber Deterrence Policy and Where Needed Take Action to Deter Future Attacks. If we
are to take seriously the threat posed by China and other nations that are actively targeting our critical
infrastructure, we cannot simply remain on the defensive; rather, we must implement effective deterrence in the
cyber domain. We can do so being clear about what kind of activity we can tolerate and what kind of activity would
cross a line; we must talk about our offensive capabilities in the cyber domain to demonstrate one way we might
effectuate that deterrence; and, having established a clear line, we must be willing to enforce it and impose
significant consequences on bad actors and we must do so in a way that is open and transparent so we are able to
deter both the current and future actors. n90 While there are those that argue such a policy is too provocative or
more likely to get us into a conflict, the reality is that we are already in state of sustained low-level combat in the
cyber domain, and that it has gotten worse in recent years not better. n91 The fact of the matter is that when our
adversaries don't know how we might react--or worse, based on prior practices assume that we won't react all--they
are more likely to push the envelope and test our boundaries. n92

VII. Conclusion

For over a decade now, Congress and the Executive Branch have been talking the very real threats that globally
repressive nations like China, Russia, Iran, and North Korea pose to the United States, particularly in the cyber
domain and with respect to emerging technologies. And while we have taken significant action to address some of
these threats, the reality is that we are far from where we need to be if we are going to successfully limit the threat
these nations pose. It is critical that the United States take swift action, alongside our allies, to limit the threats we
face in the cyber domain and to limit our exposure to the threats that are apparent in the emerging technology
domain as well while continuing to lead on innovation. To do any less would be significant mistake.

n1 Jamil N. Jaffer currently serves as Founder and Executive Director of the National Security Institute and the NSI
Cyber and Tech Center and as an Assistant Professor of Law and Director of the National Security Law and Policy
Program and the Cyber, Intelligence, and National Security LL.M. Program at the Antonin Scalia Law School at
George Mason University. Mr. Jaffer is also a Venture Partner at Paladin Capital Group, a leading global multistage
investor that identifies, supports and invests in innovative companies that develop promising, early-stage
technologies to address the critical cyber and advanced technological needs of both commercial and government
customers. Mr. Jaffer serves on a variety of public and private boards of directors and advisory boards, including his
recent appointment to serve as a member of the Cyber Safety Review Board at the Department of Homeland
Security, an advisory board responsible for reviewing and assessing and significant cyber incidents affecting federal
civilian and non-federal systems. Among other things, Mr. Jaffer previously served as Chief Counsel and Senior
Advisor to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Senior Counsel to the House Intelligence Committee,
Associate Counsel to President George W. Bush in the White House, and Counsel to the Assistant Attorney
General for National Security in the U.S. Department of Justice. Mr. Jaffer is testifying before this Subcommittee in
his personal and individual capacity and is not testifying on behalf of any organization or entity, including but not
limited to any current or former employer or public or private entity. Mr. Jaffer would like to thank Keelin Wolfe, Ann
Long, and Patrick Schmidt for their excellent research assistance with respect to this testimony.

n2 Significant portions of this testimony have also been drawn in whole or in part from prior testimony provided by
Mr. Jaffer to the Senate Banking Committee in January 2024 and to the House Select Committee on the Chinese
Communist Party in September 2024, as well as from an NSI Decision Memo entitled Addressing the National
Security Threat of Chinese Technological Innovation by Jamil N. Jaffer published in July 2023. Citations to that
testimony and paper and quotation marks for portions of this testimony drawn from those materials have been
omitted, including where significant portions are excerpted verbatim. Links to both pieces of testimony can be found
at the links provided below in footnote 2. In addition, Mr. Jaffer would like to thank Devlin Birnie, Jessica Jones,
Harrison McClintock, and Alex Tokie for their excellent research and editing assistance with NSI Decision Memo
which can be found at: https://nationalsecuritv.gmu.edu/addressing-the-national-securitv-threat-of-chinese-
technological-innovation-2/.

                                                                                                Page 10 of 18
      Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific and International Cybersecurity Policy
                          Hearing "Cyberspace Under Threat in the Era of Rising Aut....

n3 See Jamil N. Jaffer, Statement for the Record on How the CCP Uses the Law to Silence Critics and Enforce its
Rule, United States House Select Committee on the Chinese Communist Party (Sept. 19, 2024), available online at
https://selectcommitteeontheccp.house.gov/committee-activitv/hearings/how-ccp-uses-law-silence-critics-and-
enforce-its-rule; Jamil N. Jaffer, Statement for the Record on National Security Challenges: Outpacing China in
Emerging Technology, United States Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs (Jan. 18, 2024),
available online at https://www.banking.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/iaffer testimony.pdf.

n4 See Michael R. Pompeo, Press Statement: Determination of the Secretary of State on Atrocities in Xinjiang,
United States Department of State (Jan. 19, 2021), available online at https ://2017-2021.state.gov/determination-
of-the-secretary-of-state-on-atrocities-in-xiniiang/ ("I have determined that since at least March 2017, the.. .PRC[],
under the direction and control of the . CCP[], has committed crimes against humanity against the predominantly
Muslim Uyghurs.m Xinjiang.Tn addition. I have determined that the PRC, under the direction and control of the
CCP, has committed genocide against the predominantly Muslim Uyghurs .in Xinjiang."); see also, e.g., United
States Department of State, 2021 Country Reports on Human Rights Practices: China (Includes Hong Kong,
Macau, and Tibet) (Apr. 12, 2022), available online at https://www.state.gov/reports/2021 -country-reports-on-
human-rights-practices/china/; United States Department of State, 2019 Country Reports on Human Rights
Practices: China (Includes Hong Kong, Macau, and Tibet) (Mar. 2020), at pp. 89-131 (sections on Tibet and Hong
Kong), available online at https://www.state.gov/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/CHINA-INCLUSIVE-2019-HUMAN-
RIGHTS-REPORT.pdf.

n5 See, e.g., Nectar Gan, et al., China Starts "Punishment" Military Drills Around Taiwan Days After Island Swears
in New Leader, CNN (May 23, 2024), available online at https://edition.cnn.com/2024/05/22/asia/china-military-
drills-taiwan-punishment-intl-hnk/index.html.

n6 See, e.g., Matthew Olay, Threat From China Increasing, Air Force Official Says, DOD News (Sept. 16, 2024)
available      online    at     https://www.defense.gov/News/News-Stories/Article/Article/3907669/threat-from-china-
increasing-air-force-official-savs/ ("[T]he Chinese Communist Party continues to heavily invest in capabilities,
operational concepts and organizations that are specifically designed to defeat the United States and its allies'
ability to project power ...including weapons targeting U.S. land and sea assets like air bases and aircraft carriers.");
Agnes Chang, et al., China's Risky Power Play in the South China Sea, N.Y. Times (Sept. 15, 2024), available
online at https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2024/09/15/world/asia/south-china-sea-philippines.html.

n7 See, e.g., Bulelani Jili, China's Surveillance Ecosystem and the Global Spread of its Tools, Issue Brief, Atlantic
Council (Oct. 17, 2022), available online at https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/in-depth-research-reports/issue-
brief/chinese-surveillance-ecosystem-and-the-global-spread-of-its-tools/; Sheena Chestnut Greitens, Dealing with
Demand for China's Global Surveillance Exports, Brookings Inst. (Apr. 2024), available online at
https://www.brookings.edu/wp-content/uploads/2020/04/FP 20200428 china surveillance greitens v3.pdf.

n8 See, e.g., Jared Cohen, et al., Resource Realism: The Geopolitics of Critical Mineral Supply Chains, Goldman
Sachs         Global         Institute       (Sept.       13,        2023),        available         online        at
https://www.goldmansachs.com/insights/articles/resource-realism-the-geopolitics-of-critical-mineral-supplY-chains
("China now accounts for 85 - 90% of global REEs mine-to-metal refining.. .Likewise, China refines 68% of the
world's cobalt, 65% of nickel, and 60% of lithium of the grade needed for electric vehicle batteries .Even though
new discoveries of critical mineral reserves around the world continue to be made, China is still the top producer of
30 of the 50 critical minerals, in part because it mines at greater rates than other countries."); see id. ("In 2010,
Beijing embargoed REE exports to Tokyo .[i]n 2020, China reportedly cut off exports of graphite to Sweden.
Following up on the October 2022 US-led export controls on advanced computing and semiconductor products
.Beijing announced its own export controls on gallium and germanium products to the United States in the summer
of 2023.").

n9 See, e.g., Jamil N. Jaffer, Waking up to the Threat of the Chinese Communist Party: A Call to Action from
Congress, The Hill (Feb. 28, 2023) (op-ed), available online at https://thehill.com/opinion/national-securitv/3877095-

                                                                                               Page 11 of 18
     Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific and International Cybersecurity Policy
                         Hearing "Cyberspace Under Threat in the Era of Rising Aut....

waking-up-to-the-threat-of-the-chinese-communist-partv-a-call-to-action-from-congress/ (arguing that "the CCP's
Belt and Road Initiative, while masquerading as an economic development program, is actually a tool for massive
economic theft and political coercion, designed to supply the Chinese government with resources and jobs for its
population, while addicting developing nations to Chinese financing that they can't possibly repay"); see also Reid
Standish, A Closer Look At China's Controversial Lending Practices Around The World, Radio Free Europe/Radio
Liberty (Apr. 22, 2021), available online at https://www.rferl.org/a/china-loans-around-the-world/31217468,html) at
5-9, 34-45, available online at https://www.cgdev.org/sites/default/files/how-china-lends-rare-look-100-debt-
contracts-foreign-governments.pdf.

n10 See, e.g., Max Bergmann, et al., Collaboration for a Price: Russian Military-Technical Cooperation with China,
Iran, and North Korea, Center for Strategic International Studies (May 22, 2024), available online at
https://www.csis.org/analYsis/collaboration-price-russian-militarv-technical-cooperation-china-iran-and-north-korea;
see also, e.g., Kimberlv Donovan and Maia Nikoladze, The Axis of Evasion": Behind China's Oil Trade with Iran and
Russia, The Atlantic Council (Mar. 28, 2024), available online at https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/blogs/new-
atlanticist/the-axis-of-evasion-behind-chinas-oil-trade-with-iran-and- russia/.

n11 See, e.g., Jamil N. Jaffer, Addressing the National Security Threat of Chinese Technological Innovation,
National Securitv Institute (Aug. 2023), at 1, available online at https://nationalsecuritv.gmu.edu/wp-
content/uploads/2023/08/The-National-Securitv-Threat-of-Chinese-Technological-Innovation.pdf ("Over time, the
PRC came to relv upon the theft of U.S. intellectual property at industrial scale--referred to as the greatest transfer
of wealth in modern human historv--to create an entire industrv of state-owned and state-influenced enterprises
that, when combined todav, generate a tremendous amount of the technologv products and capabilities sold around
the globe.") (internal citations omitted); Senator Carl Levin, Opening Statement of Chairman Carl Levin in Hearing
to Receive Testimony on U.S. Strategic Command and U.S. Cyber Command in Review of the Defense
Authorization Request for Fiscal Year 2013 and the Future Years Defense Program, Senate Armed Services
Committee (Mar. 27, 2012), at 3, available online at https://www.armed-services.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/12-
19%20-%203-27-12.pdf ("General Alexander has stated that the relentless industrial espionage being waged
against U.S. industry and Government chiefly by China constitute 'the largest transfer of wealth in history.'"). 12 13
14

n12 See Cvbersecuritv and Infrastructure Securitv Agencv, et al., PRC State-Sponsored Actors Compromise and
Maintain Persistent Access to U.S. Critical Infrastructure, Alert Code: AA24-038A (Feb. 7. 2024), available online at
https://www.cisa.gov/news-events/cvbersecuritv-advisories/aa24-038a.

n13 See id.; see also text accompanving n. 58 infra.

n14 See, e.g., Alison Snvder, China Talent Program Increased Young Scientists' Productivity, Study Says, Axios
(Jan. 10, 2023), available online at https://www. axios.com/2023/01/10/china-funding-voung-scientists-productivitv
(describing the Youth Thousand Talents Program (YTT), which offers more than 3,500 voung researchers --both
Chinese nationals and foreign-born scientists--funding and benefits to relocate full-time to China and also
describing the Thousand Talents Program, a large effort that began in 2008 with the goal of recruiting top-caliber
scientists to work with China; a part of that effort often allowed or even encouraged recruits to remain at their U.S.
institutions while also working with the PRC); see also Emity S. Weinstein, Chinese Talent Program Tracker, Center
for Security and Emerging Technology, Georgetown University (Nov. 2020), available online at
https://cset.georgetown.edu/publication/chinese-talent-program- tracker/ (noting that Chinese talent initiatives
include 43 national-level programs and 200 talent programs at sub-national levels, numbers that are growing as the
PRC "seeks to retain, manage, and recruit talent globally"); Federal Bureau of Investigation, The China Threat -
Chinese Talent Plans Encourage Trade Secret Theft, Economic Espionage, Federal Bureau of Investigation,
available online at https://www.fbi.gov/investigate/counterintelligence/the-china-threat/chinese- talent-plans
(describing hundreds of talent programs that incentivize their members to "steal foreign technologies needed to
advance China's national, military, and economic goals" including work on key programs like military technologies,
nuclear energy, wind tunnel design, and advanced lasers, and noting that talent plan participants "enter into a

                                                                                                Page 12 of 18
      Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific and International Cybersecurity Policy
                          Hearing "Cyberspace Under Threat in the Era of Rising Aut....

contract with a Chinese university or company--often affiliated with the Chinese government--that usually requires
them to [be] subject [] to Chinese laws, to share new technology developments or breakthroughs...[and to] recruit
other experts into the program").

n15 Thomas Lum and Hannah Fischer, Confucius Institutes in the United States: Selected Issues, Congressional
Research Service (May 2, 2023), available online at https://crsreports.congress.gov/product/pdf/IF/IF11180.

n16 See Chairman Mike Rogers and Ranking Member C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, Investigative Report on the U.S.
National Security Issues Posed by Chinese Telecommunications Companies Huawei and ZTE, House Permanent
Select Committee on Intelligence, U.S. House of Representatives (Oct. 8, 2012), available online at
https://intelligence.house.gov/sites/intelligence.house.gov/files/documents/huawei-
zte%20investigative%20report%20(final).pdf; see also Andy Keiser and Bryan Smith, Chinese Telecommunications
Companies Huawei and ZTE: Countering a Hostile Foreign Threat, National Security Institute (Jan. 24, 2019),
available online at https://nationalsecurity.gmu.edu/chinese-telecommunications/.

n17 See Joshua Kurlantzick, Assessing China's Digital Silk Road Initiative, Council on Foreign Relations (Dec. 18,
2020), available online at https://www.cfr.org/ china-digital-silk-road/; Chang Che and John Liu, 'De-Americanize ':
How China Is Remaking Its Chip Business, New York Times (May 11, 2023), available online at https://www.
nytimes.com/2023/05/11/technology/china-us-chip-controls.html.

n18 See Rogers and Ruppersberger, Huawei and ZTE Investigative Report, supra n. 16 at 3 ("The ability to deny
service or disrupt global systems allows a foreign entity the opportunity to exert pressure or control over critical
infrastructure on which the country is dependent. The capacity to maliciously modify or steal information from
government and corporate entities provides China access to expensive and time-consuming research and
development that advances China's economic place in the world. Access to U.S. telecommunications infrastructure
also allows China to engage in undetected espionage against the United States government and private sector
interests....Inserting malicious hardware or software implants into Chinese-manufactured telecommunications
components and systems headed for U.S. customers could allow Beijing to shut down or degrade critical national
security systems in a time of crisis or war. Malicious implants in the components of critical infrastructure, such as
power grids or financial networks, would also be a tremendous weapon in China's arsenal.").

n19 See, e.g., Michael Nienaber, Germany to Cut Huawei From 5G Core Network by End-2026, BNN Bloomberg
(July 11, 2024), available online at https://www.bnnbloomberg.ca/business/companv-news/2024/07/10/germanv-
agrees-to-strip-huawei-from-5g-core-network-bv-end-2026/.

n20 See, e.g., Arjun Gargeyas, China's '2035 Standards ' Quest to Dominate Global Standard-Setting, Hinrich
Foundation (Feb. 21, 2023), available online at https://www.hinrichfoundation.com/research/article/trade-and-
geopolitics/china-2035-standards-proiect-restructure-global-economy/

n21 See, e.g., Protecting Americans from Foreign Adversary Controlled Applications Act, Pub. L. No. 118-50, div.
H, 138 Stat. 955 (2024); The White House, Protecting Americans ' Sensitive Data from Foreign Adversaries, 86
Fed. Reg. 31423 (June 9, 2021); The White House, Addressing the Threat Posed by TikTok, 85 Fed. Reg. 48637-
38 (Aug. 6, 2020).

n22 See Brief of Former National Security Officials, TikTok Inc. and ByteDance Ltd. v. Merrick B. Garland, No.
241113 (consolidated with others), Document #2067987 (filed Aug. 2, 2024) (attached hereto as Exhibit A).

n23 Id. at 1-7, 11-14.

n24 Id. at 10-11.

n25 Id. at 3-10.

                                                                                               Page 13 of 18
     Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific and International Cybersecurity Policy
                         Hearing "Cyberspace Under Threat in the Era of Rising Aut....

n26 See Office of the Director of National Intelligence, Annual Threat Assessment of the U.S. Intelligence
Community (Feb. 5, 2024), at 12, available online at https://www.dni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/assessments/ATA-
2024-Unclassified-Report.pdf

n27 See, e.g., The White House, National Security Strategy (Oct. 2022), at 23, available online at
https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/10/Biden- Harris-Administrations-National-Security-Strategy-
10.2022.pdf ("The PRC is the only competitor with both the intent to reshape the international order and,
increasingly, the economic, diplomatic, military, and technological power to do it_It is using its technological
capacity and increasing influence over international institutions to create more permissive conditions for its own
authoritarian model, and to mold global technology use and norms to privilege its interests and values."); Xi
Jingping, Speech to Members of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, the Chinese Academy of Engineering, and the
National Congress of China Association for Science and Technology (May 28, 2021) (translated by Zichen Wang),
available online at https://www.pekingnology.com/p/xi-iinpings-speech-on- science-and?s=r ("[Scientific and
technological innovation has become the main battlefield of the international strategic game, and the competition
around the commanding heights of science and technology is unprecedentedly fierce.").

n28 See, e.g., Tarun Chhabra, et. al, Executive Summary - Global China: Assessing China's Growing Role in the
World, Brookings Institution (Apr. 2020), available online at https://www.brookings.edu/articles/global-china-
technology/ ("China's rapid technological advances are playing a leading role in contemporary geopolitical
competition.. ..While the U.S. has maintained its position as the technologically dominant power for decades, China
has made enormous investments and implemented policies that have contributed significantly to its economic
growth, military capability, and global influence. In some areas, China has eclipsed, or is on the verge of eclipsing,
the United States -- particularly in the rapid deployment of certain technologies."); Bloomberg News, How China
Aims to Counter US 'Containment'Efforts in Tech, Washington Post (Mar. 30, 2023), available online at
https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/2023/03/30/explainer-how-china-aims-to-counter-us-containment-efforts-
in-tech/cea71f0c-cf1d-11ed-8907-156f0390d081 story.html).

n29 See Wayne M. Morrison, China's Economic Rise: History, Trends, Challenges, and Implications for the United
States,     Congressional     Research     Service    (June     25,  2019),    at   23,     available  online    at
https://crsreports.congress.gov/product/pdf/RL/RL33534 ("China's abundance of low-cost labor has made it
internationally competitive in many low-cost, labor-intensive manufactures. As a result, manufactured products
constitute a significant share of China's trade. A substantial amount of China's imports is comprised of parts and
components that are assembled into finished products, such as consumer electronic products and computers, and
then exported.")

n30 See Jaffer, Addressing the National Security Threat, supra at n. 11.

n31 See, e.g., Special Competitive Studies Project, Generative AI: The Future of Innovation Power (Oct. 2023), at 3
and     n.6   (collecting   sources),   10-12    and    23,    available    online    at   https://www.scsp.ai/wp-
content/uploads/2023/10/economy.pdf; Brady Helwig, et al., National Action Plan for Advanced Compute and
Microelectronics, Special Competitive Studies Project (Nov. 2023), at 8-9, 13, 32, and 39, available online at
https://www.scsp.ai/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/National-Action-Plan-for-U.S.-Advantage-in-Advanced-Compute-
and-Microelectronics.pdf; see also, e.g., John Miller and Sacha Wunsch-Vincent, High-Tech Trade Rebounded
Strongly in the Second Half of2020, with New Asian Exporters Benefiting (Mar. 15, 2021), available online at
https://www.wipo.int/pressroom/en/news/2021/news 0001.html.

n32 Id.

n33 See Karen M. Sutter, "Made in China 2025" Industrial Policies: Issues for Congress, Congressional Research
Service (Mar. 10, 2023), at 1, available online at https://crsreports.congress.gov/product/pdf/IF/IF10964.

n34 Id.

                                                                                                Page 14 of 18
      Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific and International Cybersecurity Policy
                          Hearing "Cyberspace Under Threat in the Era of Rising Aut....

n35 See SCSP, Generative AI, supra at n. 31, at 3 and n. 6.

n36 Id.

n37 See ODNI, Annual Threat Assessment, supra n. 26 at 9.

n38 Id.

n39 See, e.g., Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, 2023 Special 301 Report, Executive Office of the
President,The       White      House      (Apr.   2023),   at   9,     22-23,   45-47,   available  online   at
https://ustr.gov/sites/default/files/2023-04/2023Special301Report.pdf; see also Keith B. Alexander and Jamil N.
Jaffer, China Is Waging Economic War on America. The Pandemic Is an Opportunity to Turn the Fight Around,
Barron's (August 4, 2020), available online at https://www.barrons.com/ articles/china-is-waging-cyber-enabled-
economic-war-on-the-u-s-how-to-fight-back-51596587400.

n40 Id.

n41 See, e.g., Sean O'Connor, How Chinese Companies Facilitate Technology Transfer from the United States,
U.S.-China Economic Security Review Commission, at 7 (May 6, 2019), available online at
https://www.uscc.gov/sites/default/files/Research/HowChineseCompaniesFacilitateTechTransferfromtheUS.pdf

n42 Id. at 8.

n43 See, e.g., Erica York, et al., Comparing the Corporate Tax System in the U.S. and China, Tax Foundation, at 4
(May 2022), available online at https://files.taxfoundation.org/20220502152914/Comparing-the-Corporate-Tax-
Systems-in-the-United-States-and-China.pdf.

n44 See, e.g., Cory Bennet and Bryan Bender, How China Acquires 'The Crown Jewels ' of U.S. Technology,
Politico (May 22, 2018), available online at https ://www. politico.com/story/2018/05/22/china-us-tech-companies-
cfius-572413; Camille A. Stewart, Full Court Press: Preventing Foreign Adversaries from Exfiltrating National
Security Technologies Through Bankruptcy Proceedings, 10 J. Nat'l Security L. and Pol'y 277, 279-82 (2019).

n45 See, e.g., Alison Snyder, China Talent Program Increased Young Scientists ' Productivity, Study Says, Axios
(Jan. 10, 2023), available online at https://www. axios.com/2023/01/10/china-funding-young-scientists-productivitv;
see also Emily S. Weinstein, Chinese Talent Program Tracker, Center for Security and Emerging Technology,
Georgetown University (Nov. 2020), available online at https://cset.georgetown.edu/publication/chinese-talent-
program- tracker/; Federal Bureau of Investigation, The China Threat - Chinese Talent Plans Encourage Trade
Secret    Theft,    Economic      Espionage,     Federal    Bureau      of  Investigation,  available online     at
https://www.fbi.gov/investigate/counterintelligence/the-china-threat/chinese- talent-plans.

n46 See Gargeyas, China's '2035 Standards' supra n. 20.

n47 See Sutter, Made in China 2025, supra n. 33 at 2 ("Similarly, the FYP calls for an expanded use of antitrust, IP,
and standards tools--in China and extraterritorially--to set market terms and promote the export of MIC2025 goods
and services now coming to market. The FYP also emphasizes the value of China's foreign research ties in
developing China's own competencies in a range of MIC2025 technology areas.").

n48 See id.

n49 See, e.g., Jill C. Gallagher, U.S. Restrictions on Huawei Technologies: National Security, Foreign Policy, and
Economic Interests, Congressional Research Service (Jan. 5, 2022), at 7-8, available online at
https://crsreports.congress.gov/product/pdf/R/R47012/2 (describing how "[n]ational champions [in China], including
Huawei, received preferential policy treatment, access to low-cost financing, Randamp;D funding, and tax
benefits"); see also, e.g., Ann Harrison, et al., Can a Tiger Change Its Stripes? Reform of Chinese State-Owned

                                                                                               Page 15 of 18
     Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific and International Cybersecurity Policy
                         Hearing "Cyberspace Under Threat in the Era of Rising Aut....

Enterprises in the Penumbra of the State, NBER Working Paper No. 25475 (Jan. 2019), at 24, available online at
https://www.nber.org/svstem/files/working papers/w25475/w25475.pdf (noting that former Chinese state-owned
enterprises, like SOEs themselves, generally "retain ready access to large loans, concessionary interest rates, and
outright subsidies").

n50 See, e.g., Scott Livingston, The New Challenge of Communist Corporate Governance, Center for Strategic and
International Studies (Jan. 2021), at 2-4, available online at https://csis-website-prod.s3.amazonaws.com/s3fs-
public/publication/210114 Livingston New Challenge.pdf.

n51 See, e.g., Eric Schmidt, To Compete With China on Tech, America Needs to Fix Its Immigration System,
Foreign Affairs (May 16, 2023), available online at https://www.foreignaffairs.com/united-states/eric-schmidt-
compete-china-tech-america-needs-fix-its-immigration-system ("While the United States' dysfunctional system
increasingly deters the world's top scientists, researchers, and entrepreneurs, other countries are proactively
recruiting them. China is particularly active in doing so, with direction coming from the very top.").

n52 See, e.g., Karin Fischer, China Outpaces U.S. in STEM, Georgetown Center for Security and Emerging
Technology, Latitudes (Aug. 9, 2021), available online at https ://cset. georgetown.edu/article/china-outpaces-u-s-
in-stem/. ("China could graduate nearly twice as many STEM PhDs as the United States by 2025...China overtook
the U.S. in PhD production in 2007 and has steadily increased its lead ever since.").

n53 See Jane Nakano, The Geopolitics of Critical Minerals Supply Chains, Center for Strategic and International
Studies, at 5 (March 2021), available online at https://csis-website-prod.s3.amazonaws.com/s3fs-
public/publication/210311 Nakano Critical Minerals.pdf.

n54 See, e.g., Arjun Kharpal, What are Gallium and Germanium? China Curbs Exports of Metals Critical to Chips
and Other Tech, CNBC (July 4, 2023), available online at https://www.cnbc.com/2023/07/04/what-are-gallium-and-
germanium-china-curbs-exports-of-metals-for-tech.html),              available            online              at
https://www.reuters.com/markets/commodities/      chinas-rare-earths-dominance-focus-after-mineral-export-curbs-
2023-07-05/.

n55 See ODNI, Annual Threat Assessment, supra n. 26 at 12

n56 Id.

n57 See Christopher A. Wray, Director Wray's Opening Statement, House Select Committee on the Strategic
Competition Between the United States and the Chinese Communist Party (Jan 31, 2024), available online at
https://www.fbi.gov/news/speeches/director-wravs-opening-statement-to-the-house-select-committee-on-the-
chinese-communist-partv.

n58 Id.

n59 See CISA, et al., PRC State-Sponsored Actors Compromise and Maintain Persistent Access, supra n. 12.

n60 See Sam Sabin, Chinese Hacking "Typhoons" Threaten U.S. Infrastructure, Axios (Sept. 20, 2024), available
online at https://www.axios.com/2024/09/20/china-critical-infrastructure-cvberattacks.

n61 Id.

n62 See ODNI, Annual Threat Assessment, supra n. 26 at 12.

n63 Id.

n64 See ODNI, Worldwide Threat Assessment of the U.S. Intelligence Community (Jan. 29, 2019), available online
at https://www.dni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/2019-ATA-SFR--SSCI.pdf.

                                                                                               Page 16 of 18
     Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific and International Cybersecurity Policy
                         Hearing "Cyberspace Under Threat in the Era of Rising Aut....

n65 See Gargeyas, China's '2035 Standards' Quest, supra n. 20.

n66 Id.

n67 See ODNI, Annual Threat Assessment, supra n. 26 at 9.

n68 See Agence France Presse, UN Approves its First Treaty Targeting Cybercrime, Barron's (Aug. 8. 2024),
available online at https://www.barrons.com/news/un-approves-its-first-treatv-targeting-cvbercrime-93801d31.

n69 See Jason Pielemeier, Rethinking the United Nations Cybercrime Treaty, Just Security (Sept. 23, 2024),
available online at httPs://www.iustsecuritv.org/100333/rethmking-united-nations-cvbercrime-treatv/.

n70 See AFP, UN Approves First Treaty, supra n. 68.

n71 See Pielemeier, Rethinking the UN Cybercrime Treaty, supra n. 69.

n72 Id.

n73 See James Manyika et al., Innovation and National Security - Keeping Our Edge, Council on Foreign Relations
(Sep. 2019), at 2, 19, available online at https://www.cfr.org/report/keeping-our-edge/pdf/TFR Innovation
Strategy.pdf ("Federally supported RandD had a dramatic impact on U.S. competitiveness and national security.
According to a 2019 study, starting in the 2010s nearly one-third of patented U.S. inventions relied on federally
funded science []. Touch screens, the Global Positioning System (GPS), and internet technologies central to the
smartphone are all products of Defense Department research...Between 1988 and 2010, $3.8 billion of federal
investment in genomic research generated an economic impact of $796 billion and created 310,000 jobs. A new
wave of support for basic research could have similar economic and military benefits."); see also Jamie Gaida et al.,
ASPI's Critical Technology Tracker: The Global Race for Future Power, Australian Strategic Policy Institute (Feb.
2023), at 1, available online at https://ad-aspi.s3.ap-southeast-2.amazonaws.com/2023-03/ASPIs%20Critical%20
Technology%20Tracker 0.pdf (noting that "China's global lead extends to 37 out of 44 technologies that ASPI is
now tracking, covering a range of crucial technology fields spanning defense, space, robotics, energy, the
environment, biotechnology, artificial intelligence (AI), advanced materials and key quantum technology areas").

n74 See, e.g, Pub. L. No. 117-167, [Subsec.] 10101-114 (basic science); [Subsec.] 10221-235 (basic science);
[Subsec.] 10311-321 (STEM education and workforce) and [Subsec.] 10501-526 (STEM education and workforce);
see also Madeline Ngo, CHIPS Act Funding for Science and Research Falls Short, New Y ork Times (May 30,
2023), available online at https://www.nytimes. com/2023/05/30/us/politics/chips-act-science-funding.html); see also
Matt Hourihan, Analysis: As Congress Considers COMPETES, How Short Are We From The Old COMPETES?,
American Association for the Advancement of Science (Feb. 22, 2022), available online at
https://www.aaas.org/sites/default/files/2022-02/AAAS%20COMPETES%20Shortfalls%20Feb%20 2022 0.pdf .

n75 See Jamil N. Jaffer, NSIBackgrounder: The Role of American Technology Sector in Safeguarding U.S.
Economic and National Security, National Security Institute, GMU Scalia Law School (Dec. 2022), at 1 and n. 6,
available online at https://nationalsecuritv.gmu.edu/the-role-of-american-technologv-sector-in- safeguarding-u-s-
economic-and-national-security/ (citing John F. Sargent, U.S. Research and Development Funding and
Performance: Fact Sheet, Congressional Research Service (Sept. 13, 2022), available online at
https://crsreports.congress.gov/product/pdf/R/R44307/18); see id. at 1 and n. 5 (citing Prableen Bajpai, Which
Companies Spend the Most in Research and Development (RandD)?, Nasdaq (June 21, 2021), available online at
https://www.nasdaq.com/articles/which-compa- nies-spend-the-most-in-research-and-development-rd-2021-06-21).

n76 Cf. Manyika et al., Innovation and National Security, supra n. 73 at 2, 19, available online at
https://www.cfr.org/report/keeping-our-edge/pdf/TFR Innovation Strategy.pdf ("This seventy-year strength arose
from the expansion of economic opportunities at home through substantial investments in education and
infrastructure, unmatched innovation and talent ecosystems, and the opportunities and competition created by the
opening of new markets and the global expansion of trade. ").

                                                                                                Page 17 of 18
      Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific and International Cybersecurity Policy
                          Hearing "Cyberspace Under Threat in the Era of Rising Aut....

n77 See, e.g., American Innovation and Choice Online Act, S.2992, 117th Cong. (2021); Open App Markets Act,
S.2710, 117th Cong. (2021).

n78 Bill Evanina and Jamil N. Jaffer, Kneecapping U.S. Tech Companies Is a Recipe for Economic Disaster,
Barron's (June 17, 2022), available online at https://www.barrons.com/articles/kneecapping-u-s-tech-firms-is-a-
recipe-for-economic-disaster-51655480902 ("Conservatives are often worried--sometimes for good reason--that
certain social or mainstream media companies might actively seek to suppress or quiet conservative voices. On the
liberal side, there are a range of legitimate concerns with technology companies, including the displacement of
traditional labor in the new gig economy... Yet rather than tackling these concerns directly by going after the specific
behaviors or actions that trouble ordinary Americans, politicians in Washington have chosen instead to vilify some
of our most successful companies and to go after them economically."); see also David R. Henderson, A Populist
Attack On Big Tech, The Hoover Institution (Mar. 3, 2022), available online at https://www.
hoover.org/research/populist-attack-big-tech-0.

n79 Klon Kitchen and Jamil Jaffer, The American Innovation and Choice Online Act Is A Mistake, The Kitchen Sync
(Jan. 19, 2022), available online at https://www. thekitchensync.tech/p/the-american-innovation-and-choice ("Going
after our technology companies, particularly a targeted shot at certain big ones, sends the wrong message to
startups and investors alike; it tells them that if you are innovative enough to be successful and grow significantly
larger, you may be targeted for different treatment....This undermines not only the companies that are likely to be
investing in RandD over the next decade and generating some of the key innovations that will contribute to our
national security, it also undermines a central proposition that has created a robust tech ecosystem in this country:
take risk, innovate, fail fast and often, and when you succeed, reap the rewards so long as you don't exploit your
position to gain unfair advantage."); Evanina and Jaffer, Kneecapping U.S. Tech Companies, supra n. 78 ("Picking
and choosing individual companies to be treated differently than others under our antitrust laws is inconsistent with
the heart of our economic system, which Seeks to reward innovation and success, not penalize them.").

n80 See Henderson, A Populist Attack on Big Tech, supra n. 78; Evanina and Jaffer, Kneecapping U.S. Tech
Companies, supra n. 78.

n81 See, e.g., Cecilia Kang, As Europe Approves New Tech Laws, the U.S. Falls Further Behind, New York Times
(April 22, 2022), available online at https://www. nytimes.com/2022/04/22/technology/tech-regulation-europe-
us.html

n82 See Jan Rybnicek, Innovation in the United States and Europe, in Report on the Digital Economy, Global
Antitrust Institute (2020), available online at https://gaidigitalreport.com/2020/08/25/innovation-in-the-united-states-
and-europe/; Michael Ringel et al., The Most Innovative Companies 2020, The Serial Innovation Imperative, Boston
Consulting Group, at 16 (June 2020), available online at https://web-assets.bcg.com/img-src/BCG-Most-Innovative-
Companies-2020-Jun-2020-R-4 tcm9-251007.pdf; see also Loren Thompson, Why Reining In Big Tech Could Be
Bad News For U.S. National Security, Forbes (July 7, 2022), available online at https://www.
forbes.com/sites/lorenthompson/2022/07/07/why-breaking-up-big-tech-could-be-bad-news-for-us-national-
security/?sh=1e40190d32bd; Jaffer, The Role of American Technology Sector, supra n. 75.

n83 Cf. Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity, National Institute of Standards and
Technology (Apr. 16, 2018), available online at https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/CSWP/NIST.CSWP.04162018.pdf.

n84 Compare Geoffrey Hinton, et al., Statement on AI Risk: AI Experts and Public Figures Express their Concern
About AI Risk, Center for AI Risk (May 30, 2023), available online at https://www.safe.ai/statement-on-ai-
risk#open-letter ("Mitigating the risk of extinction from AI should be a global priority alongside other societal-scale
risks such as pandemics and nuclear war.") with Michael Chui, et al., Generative AI is Here: How Tools Like
ChatGPT Could Change Your Business, McKinsey and Co. (Dec. 20, 2022), available online at
https://www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/quantumblack/our-insights/generative-ai-is-here-how-tools-like-chatgpt-
could-change-vour-business; Danny Hajek, et al., What Is AI and How Will It Change Our Lives?, NPR (May 25,
2023), available online at https://www.npr.org/2023/05/25/1177700852/ai- future-dangers-benefits.

                                                                                               Page 18 of 18
     Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific and International Cybersecurity Policy
                         Hearing "Cyberspace Under Threat in the Era of Rising Aut....

n85 See Bureau of Economic Analysis, Direct Investment by Country and Industry, 2022, U.S. Dept. of Commerce
(July 20, 2023), available online at https://www. bea.gov/sites/default/files/2023-07/dici0723.pdf.

n86 See Emily S. Weinstein and Ngor Luong, U.S. Outbound Investment into Chinese AI Companies, Georgetown
University Center for Security and Emerging Technology (Feb. 2023), at 11-13, available online at
https://cset.georgetown.edu/wp-content/uploads/CSET-U.S.-Outbound-Investment-into-Chinese-AI-Companies.pdf
see also Alexandra Alper, U.S. Investors Have Plowed Billions into China's AI sector, Report Shows, Reuters (Feb.
1, 2023), available online at https://www.reuters.com/ technology/us-investors-have-plowed-billions-into-chinas-ai-
sector-report-shows-2023-02-01/.

n87 See McKinsey and Co., The CHIPS and Science Act: Here's What's in It (Oct. 4, 2022), available online at
https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/public-sector/ our-insights/the-chips-and-science-act-heres-whats-in-it; cf
National Science Teachers Association, FACT SHEET: Title IV, Part A of ESSA: Student Support and Academic
Enrichment Grants and Science/STEMEducation, available online at https://static.nsta.org/pdfs/ESSATitleIV-
ScienceSTEMFactSheet.pdf (describing the $1.65 billion Student Support and Academic Enrichment block grant
program under The Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA) enacted in 2014, which consolidated the Math and
Science Partnership Grants, which is described as "the largest single program at the Department of Education
devoted exclusively to science/STEM-related classroom purposes," having "received $152.7M in FY2016 before it
was eliminated").

n88 See William Alan Reinsch and Thibault Denamiel, Immigration Policy's Role in Bolstering the U.S. Technology
Edge, Center for Strategic and International Studs. (Feb. 6, 2023), available online at
https://www.csis.org/analvsis/immigration-policvs-role-bolstering-us-technologv-edge; see also Gina M. Raimondo,
Remarks by U.S. Sec 'y of Com. Gina Raimondo on the U.S. Competitiveness and the China Challenge, U.S.
Department         of        Commerce          (Nov.         20,        2022),      available      online     at
https://www.commerce.gov/news/speeches/2022/11/remarks-us-secretary-commerce-gina-raimondo-us-
competitiveness-and-china; see also Eric Schmidt, To Compete With China on Tech, America Needs to Fix Its
Immigration System, Foreign Affairs (May 16, 2023), available online at https://www.foreignaffairs.com/united-
states/eric-schmidt-compete-china-tech-america-needs-fix-its-immigration-system.

n89 See Paayal Zaveri, America's Immigration System is a Nightmare and it's Forcing Tech Companies to Move
Jobs     Outside   of   the   Country,     Business    Insider   (Mar.    14,    2023),   available  online    at
https://www.businessinsider.com/us-tech-firms-offshoring-immigration-labor-shortage-issues-remote-work-2023-3.

n90 See Jamil N. Jaffer, Statement for the Record, Safeguarding the Federal Software Supply Chain,
Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Information Technology, and Government Innovation, Committee on Oversight
and     Accountability  (Nov.      29,   2023),       available online at  https://oversight.house.gov/wp-
content/uploads/2023/11/Written-Statement-Jaffer.pdf.

n91 Id.

n92 Id.

Read this original document at: https://www.foreign.senate.gov/download/092424_jaffer_testimony


Load-Date: September 26, 2024


  
