

                                                                            Page 1 of 2
         DHS S&T MARKS NATIONAL PREPAREDNESS MONTH WITH COLORADO WILDFIRE SENSOR
                            DELIVERY AND FIRST RESPONDER FORUM




  DHS S&T MARKS NATIONAL PREPAREDNESS MONTH WITH COLORADO
     WILDFIRE SENSOR DELIVERY AND FIRST RESPONDER FORUM
                                                      US Fed News
                                         September 19, 2024 Thursday 9:09 PM EST



Copyright 2024 HT Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved




Length: 536 words

Body


WASHINGTON, Sept. 19 -- The U.S. Department of Homeland Security issued the following prepared testimony:

The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Science and Technology Directorate (S&T) announced the delivery
and phased implementation of wildland fire sensors throughout Colorado that can detect the early stages of
wildfires before they spread. Currently, 20 wildfire detection and four wind sensors are being delivered to Jefferson
County, Colorado and are expected to be tested this winter. There are currently two wildfire detection sensors
installed in Boulder County, and Gilpin County will receive 100 sensors in the coming months.

Colorado is the latest state to receive these sensors for testing and evaluation, following successful deployments
this year to high-risk fire zones in the Hawaiian Islands and California. Tennessee is also on the horizon to receive
the sensors soon. Developed in collaboration with the U.S. Fire Administration and N5 Sensors Inc., this technology
will help firefighters respond faster, save lives and keep residents safe from future fires.

"Operationalizing technologies is at the core of S&T's work, and this National Preparedness Month, we are proud to
pilot these sensors to help Colorado prevent and mitigate against future wildfires," said Dr. Dimitri Kusnezov [kooz-
nets-off], DHS Under Secretary for Science and Technology. "We have a chance to get ahead of extreme weather
in our country with these AI-based sensors that work 24/7 to quickly detect an initial wildfire blaze, giving first
responders as much advanced warning as possible. Through investments in research, development, and
innovation, S&T develops groundbreaking tools like these sensors to support DHS security missions and first
responders."

The piloting of these sensors coincides with Under Secretary Kusnezov's visit to Colorado this week to listen, learn,
and engage with emergency managers and first responders who work on the front lines of rapid change and
evolving threats.

In Denver, Under Secretary Kusnezov engaged with members of the nation's Big City Emergency Managers at their
Fall 2024 meeting to discuss challenges and opportunities to leverage emerging technology solutions to increase
community resilience.

                                                                          Page 2 of 2
       DHS S&T MARKS NATIONAL PREPAREDNESS MONTH WITH COLORADO WILDFIRE SENSOR
                          DELIVERY AND FIRST RESPONDER FORUM

In Boulder, S&T participated in the Boulder Office of Disaster Management's Disaster Preparedness Forum, which
included an all-hazards responder needs discussion, followed by an in-depth conversation about increasing wildfire
threats and potential solutions - including ongoing S&T projects - to build community resilience against them. This
engagement featured a display of several S&T wildfire preparedness technologies, including the wildfire sensor, a
wildland fire respirator capable of removing airborne hazards in the wildland firefighting operating environment, and
the Colorado Tactical Awareness Kit (COTAK) situational awareness platform.

*Rest of the document can be viewed at: (https://www.dhs.gov/science-and-technology/news/2024/09/19/st-marks-
national-preparedness-month-colorado-wildfire-sensor-delivery-and-first-responder-forum) For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at contentservices@htdigital.in


Load-Date: September 23, 2024


  
