

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 3
    UiPath Integrates Anthropic Claude Language Models to Deliver Next Generation AI Assistant and Solutions
                           UiPath embeds Anthropic's Claude LLMs to fuel UiPath Au....




    UiPath Integrates Anthropic Claude Language Models to Deliver Next
 Generation AI Assistant and Solutions; UiPath embeds Anthropic's Claude
 LLMs to fuel UiPath Autopilot for everyone, Clipboard AI, and a new GenAI
 healthcare solution to offer customers improved productivity, cost savings,
                       and decision-making capabilities
                                                  Business Wire
                                     October 22, 2024 Tuesday 6:00 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 1015 words
Dateline: NEW YORK and LAS VEGAS

Body

UiPath (NYSE: PATH), a leading enterprise automation and AI software company, today announced the integration
of Anthropic's large language model (LLM), Claude 3.5 Sonnet , to deliver new AI features in three key products,
including UiPath Autopilot for everyone, Clipboard AI, and a new medical record summarization solution.
Businesses will be able to achieve greater accuracy with UiPath's platform and Claude's advanced trusted and
responsible AI capabilities.

UiPath announced its latest capabilities at its annual FORWARD user conference taking place October 21-24 in Las
Vegas.

UiPath Autopilot for everyone

Autopilot for everyone, now available to UiPath customers, is an AI companion that streamlines daily work tasks. It
combines the power of Anthropic Claude 3.5 Sonnet, UiPath Document Understanding , and UiPath Context
Grounding to:
    •     provide instant, accurate answers to business questions by accessing trusted enterprise knowledge for a
          diverse set of use cases and can drive actions across various systems through UiPath automations
    •     enable users to discover, run, and combine existing company automations to complete complex tasks
    •     automates digital paper by extracting information from digital documents and using Clipboard AI
          technology to paste within enterprise applications
    •     empower users to create new automations using API and UI automation, to update line of business
          systems, and to automate more work under human supervision

Customers are using Autopilot for everyone to improve employee self-service, ground responses in domain and
business-specific knowledge, and automate repetitive work. Current implementations span various business

                                                                                                  Page 2 of 3
    UiPath Integrates Anthropic Claude Language Models to Deliver Next Generation AI Assistant and Solutions
                           UiPath embeds Anthropic's Claude LLMs to fuel UiPath Au....

processes. For example, healthcare services and disaster relief organizations use the solution to onboard blood
donors, and at various organizations, Autopilot for everyone is used by sales teams to guide client outreach and for
employee self-servicing on HR tasks.

"AI is fundamentally changing and improving how businesses work, and how professionals make decisions. It's not
just about saving time on mundane tasks - it's about freeing people up to do more meaningful work," said Mike
Krieger, Chief Product Officer at Anthropic. "Claude will deliver even greater customer value by streamlining daily
tasks with Autopilot, automating data entry with Clipboard AI, and improving medical record analysis in healthcare -
enabling faster, more accurate, and more intelligent automation across diverse business processes."

"Our collaboration with Anthropic emphasizes our commitment to help our customers leverage best-in-class LLMs
and specialized AI within the UiPath Platform to tackle complex automations - ensuring accurate and trusted results
every step of the way," said Graham Sheldon, Chief Product Officer at UiPath. "By incorporating Anthropic Claude
3.5 Sonnet in the UiPath Platform, our users can deliver real business results with our most innovative experiences
like Autopilot and Clipboard AI."

New GenAI Healthcare Solution

UiPath is also launching a new industry solution to help healthcare organizations revolutionize medical record
summarization and empower them to take full advantage of the combined power of GenAI and enterprise
automation. Developed in partnership with top clinical staff, this solution integrates Anthropic Claude with UiPath
Document Understanding to create a more efficient and accurate way to analyze medical documents.

Key features and benefits:
    •    will deliver HIPAA-compliant extraction and summarization of multi-page and multi-modal charts
    •    provides clinician-level summaries organized in easy-to-understand segments with traceable citations
    •    applies proprietary RAG methodology for processing unstructured medical record data, projected to deliver
         70% faster chart processing from intake to summary
    •    reduces administrative tasks for both clinical and non-clinical professionals

The new solution provides quick access to accurate information from voluminous medical records, streamlining
critical processes such as Utilization Management, Appeals, Referrals and Order Intake, and Clinical Trial Eligibility
checks.

UiPath Clipboard AI

UiPath Clipboard AI relieves people from time-intensive, manual tasks of copying information from one place to
another. It transforms repetitive data entry into a swift, intelligent process, allowing users to prioritize tasks that will
deliver greater value. Clipboard AI introduces a universal extraction fueled by Claude that quickly and accurately
processes data from trusted sources, removing the need for manual copy-paste operations.

Clipboard AI excels in:
    •    Automating extraction of information from diverse document types
    •    Eliminating manual copy-paste tasks, boosting accuracy and efficiency
    •    Seamlessly transferring data between applications, including complex spreadsheets

Businesses that leverage Clipboard AI can enhance productivity, improve customer and employee satisfaction, and
improve operational efficiency. For example, a leading provider of business-to-business distribution, logistics
services, and supply chain solutions is processing thousands of inventory documents from suppliers with Clipboard
AI, which extracts data from semi-structured comments and transfers it into an ERP app. By automating this
previously manual process, employees are saving hundreds of hours per week.

                                                                                                 Page 3 of 3
   UiPath Integrates Anthropic Claude Language Models to Deliver Next Generation AI Assistant and Solutions
                          UiPath embeds Anthropic's Claude LLMs to fuel UiPath Au....

Clipboard AI was also recognized as one of TIME's Best Inventions of 2023.

About UiPath

UiPath (NYSE: PATH) develops AI technology that mirrors human intelligence with ever-increasing sophistication,
transforming how businesses operate, innovate, and compete. The UiPath Platform(TM) accelerates the shift
toward a new era of agentic automation-one where agents, robots, people, and models integrate seamlessly to
enable autonomous processes and smarter decision making. With a focus on security, accuracy, and resiliency,
UiPath is committed to shaping a world where AI enhances human potential and revolutionizes industries. For more
information, visit www.uipath.com .

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20241022993672/en/


CONTACT: UiPath Media Contact
UiPath

pr@uipath.com UiPath Investor Relations Contact
UiPath

investor.relations@uipath.com


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: October 22, 2024


  
