

                                                                                                       Page 1 of 2
                                   Texas A&M: Eyeing the Damage of Hurricane Season




                    Texas A&M: Eyeing the Damage of Hurricane Season
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                          October 12, 2024 Saturday 9:12 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 515 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: COLLEGE STATION, Texas

Body


(TNSres) -- Texas A&M University's College of Engineering issued the following news:

***

As hurricane season continues to affect communities, researchers at Texas A&M are using AI to assess the
damage.

***

By Alyssa Schaechinger

In the aftermath of hurricanes like Helene and Milton, the damaging effects of these natural disasters are the center
of national conversations, including questions about the long-term impact to infrastructure. However, current
methods for damage assessment don't offer clear and timely answers to these questions.

That's where AI and engineering can help. Researchers from Texas A&M University are pioneering the use of AI
and machine learning to create faster methods to assess damages caused by hurricanes.

Dr. Robin Murphy and her research team, led by computer science and engineering Ph.D. student Tom Manzini,
have spent over a year working to create an open-source dataset, known as CRASAR-U-DROIDS. This dataset is
the world's largest set of annotated imagery obtained from drones, which were flown over 10 disasters, including
Hurricanes Harvey, Michael, Ida, Laura, Ian, and Idalia. With the help from 130 high school students in Texas and
Pennsylvania, the team labeled the level of damage for 14,000 buildings on 8,000 acres of land and 680 miles of
roads.

Using this dataset, Manzini and fellow graduate student Priya Perali trained an AI system to recognize building and
road damage caused by disasters. Learning these models took hours of high-performance computing but have

                                                                                                        Page 2 of 2
                               Texas A&M: Eyeing the Damage of Hurricane Season

resulted in a damage assessment system that can sort through the building and road damages of a large
neighborhood after a disaster in only four minutes using a laptop.

"AI offers tremendous value for rural counties which do not have the budget or workforce to conduct physical
damage assessments but do have inexpensive drones," said Murphy, a Raytheon Professor in the Department of
Computer Science and Engineering.

The AI system was used to determine damage in the aftermath of Hurricane Debby by the State of Florida and by
Florida and Pennsylvania in the aftermath of Hurricane Helene. Murphy and her team are on standby for damage
assessment following Hurricane Milton.

Murphy played a founding role in the field of disaster robotics, which was first established in 2001 with the use of
ground robots in the aftermath of the 9/11 terror attacks. After Hurricane Katrina in 2005, Murphy led the first use of
small unmanned aerial vehicles for disaster assessment. Since the field's establishment, she has worked onsite at
31 disasters in five countries through the non-profit Center for Robot-Assisted Search and Rescue (CRASAR).
Florida State University and their drone program are also members of CRASAR and provided most of the imagery.

The team received funding for this project through the National Science Foundation's AI Institute for Societal
Decision-Making, led by Carnegie Mellon University.

***

Original text here: https://engineering.tamu.edu/news/2024/10/eyeing-the-damage-of-hurricane-season.html

Copyright Targeted News Services

T40-MgEditor-8873368 T40-MgEditor


Load-Date: October 12, 2024


  
