

                                                                                                          Page 1 of 2
                  CHINA CALLS FOR GLOBAL COOPERATION TO PROTECT WATER SECURITY




        CHINA CALLS FOR GLOBAL COOPERATION TO PROTECT WATER
                              SECURITY
                                                 States News Service
                                           September 25, 2024 Wednesday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 389 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: BEIJING, China

Body


The following information was released by the State Council of the People's Republic of China:

China's Minister of Water Resources Li Guoying on Tuesday highlighted global joint efforts to develop water
governance strategies and tackle water security challenges.

Li made the remarks during the opening ceremony of the third Asia International Water Week (AIWW) in Beijing.

During the opening ceremony, Li and President of the Asia Water Council Seogdae Yun jointly signed the "Beijing
Declaration -- Asia to World Statement of the Third Asia International Water Week." The declaration urges global
cooperation to cope with water problems caused by climate change, accelerated urbanization and population
growth.

The declaration emphasizes the need to develop solutions through innovation drives, international cooperation and
knowledge sharing to promote sustainable development, thereby ensuring future water security in Asia and the
world.

Highlighting the importance of innovative strategies and policies, the declaration urges efforts to strengthen the
integrated management of river basins and explore flexible financing methods, such as government-market
collaboration, to construct water and sanitation infrastructure projects.

It calls for a digital transformation in water management, underscoring the need to develop smart dam theory and
practice through the application of big data, artificial intelligence and digital-twin technologies. It also stressed the
need to simulate and predict changes in water resources and optimize water resources allocation and scheduling.

Work should be done to formulate effective disaster prevention and climate change adaptation strategies, while
also promoting water conservation and efficiency gains in agricultural water use, according to the declaration.

It also underscored the importance of strengthening river and lake ecological flow and health management, and
advocating nature-based solutions in ecosystem restoration.

                                                                                                Page 2 of 2
                CHINA CALLS FOR GLOBAL COOPERATION TO PROTECT WATER SECURITY

The third AIWW is co-hosted by China's Ministry of Water Resources and the Asia Water Council, under the theme
"Enhancing Our Future Water Security."

The event attracts approximately 600 international delegates from 70 countries and regions and over 20
international organizations and institutions. It also draws around 700 domestic attendees involved in water
conservancy.


Load-Date: September 25, 2024


  
