

                                                                                                        Page 1 of 3
   Zoom introduces new advanced enterprise offerings to boost efficiency, reliability, security, and compliance for
                                          enterprise organizations




    Zoom introduces new advanced enterprise offerings to boost efficiency,
       reliability, security, and compliance for enterprise organizations
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                           September 24, 2024 Tuesday 6:00 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: PRODUCT / SERVICES ANNOUNCEMENT
Length: 1064 words

Body

SAN JOSE, Calif., Sept. 24, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Today, Zoom announced several new add-on products
and functionalities to further strengthen its advanced enterprise offerings portfolio for the Zoom platform. Zoom
advanced enterprise offerings consist of a comprehensive portfolio of Zoom products and features that help
organizations meet their compliance, security, privacy, survivability, and manageability requirements.

“Zoom’s advanced enterprise offerings reflect our commitment to empowering businesses and providing them with
offerings that enable them to be more efficient, secure, compliant, and reliable,” said Smita Hashim, chief product
officer, Zoom. “Our advanced enterprise products and features are essential tools built for Zoom Workplace and
Zoom Business Services like Zoom Events and Zoom Contact Center that work behind the scenes as part of the
Zoom network infrastructure to provide exceptional experiences to our customers. Our goal is to make
communication and collaboration on Zoom foolproof, future-proof, and fail-proof.”

New offerings for enterprise customers

In 2023 alone, over $549 million in non-compliance penalties were issued globally, more than 353 million individuals
were impacted by security breaches, and 31 percent of enterprises experienced unstable network or bandwidth
constraints. Companies face urgent pressures to manage often complex compliance obligations, avoid hefty fines,
safeguard their reputations against security threats, and prevent user dissatisfaction stemming from unreliable
connectivity. Zoom’s newest additions to its advanced enterprise offerings are poised to help companies overcome
these challenges.
    •     Zoom Compliance Manager Plus: Launched in March and powered by Theta Lake, Zoom Compliance
          Manager (ZCM) is an all-in-one offering that provides archiving, eDiscovery, legal hold, and information
          protection offerings for enterprises. Zoom Compliance Manager Plus enhances ZCM with advanced

                                                                                                       Page 2 of 3
  Zoom introduces new advanced enterprise offerings to boost efficiency, reliability, security, and compliance for
                                         enterprise organizations

        features such as risk detection, data loss protection, and advanced trends analysis. These enhanced
        capabilities will further help organizations fulfill regulatory obligations and mitigate organizational
        communications compliance risks.
    •   Zoom Meeting Survivability: Introduces a new level of network redundancy and enables business
        continuity, helping to ensure uninterrupted Zoom meeting service even during internet disruption due to
        outages from a storm, natural disaster, or carrier failure. Utilizing Zoom Node, a central hub for hosting
        Zoom workloads on premises, this functionality keeps meetings running smoothly via a failover to data
        centers where meetings are hosted on your local servers with minimal disruption to the end users.
    •   Zoom Mesh for Meetings: With Zoom Mesh, companies can optimize bandwidth usage and save up to 60
        percent on internet bandwidth and associated costs. Already available for Zoom Webinars and Zoom
        Events, this capability now extends to Zoom Meetings for an exceptional user experience regardless of
        bandwidth constraints.
    •   Zoom Customer Managed Key (CMK) Hybrid: CMK Hybrid enhances Zoom’s current CMK data privacy
        offering by providing customers with more options to manage the encryption keys used to protect data
        maintained by Zoom. CMK Hybrid allows customers to control the entire encryption/decryption process on
        premises. Zoom Team Chat messages, for example, can be encrypted locally by the Zoom Workplace app
        (some Zoom cloud-based Team Chat functionalities will not be available as a result). Zoom CMK Hybrid
        will be available for Zoom Workplace starting with the support of Zoom Team Chat in Q4 2024.

An enterprise-grade offerings portfolio designed to meet organizations’ needs

The new advanced enterprise products and features introduced today bolster the existing robust portfolio of Zoom’s
enterprise offerings, which are specifically designed to address the complex needs of large organizations and those
in regulated industries such as finance, healthcare, and government agencies. These offerings are included with
Zoom Workplace Enterprise licenses, help improve business continuity, optimize bandwidth, enhance security,
simplify manageability, and support communications compliance. The advanced enterprise offerings are organized
across six key categories:
    •   Communications compliance: Archiving, Data Loss Prevention, Information Barrier, and Chat Etiquette
        solutions help address communications compliance requirements for regulated industries worldwide.
    •   Data residency & privacy compliance: Tools to help meet local and regional customer data residency and
        privacy compliance requirements such as Customer Managed Key.
    •   Policy & deployment management: Zoom Device Management, policy provisioning, and deployment tools
        to help ease implementation and support.
    •   Security & access control: Encryption and virtual desktop infrastructure (VDI) offerings to provide enhanced
        security protection for data at rest and in transit.
    •   Analytics & insights: A robust set of dashboards, monitoring, reporting, and alerting tools to improve overall
        operational visibility.
    •   Network optimization & survivability: Zoom Mesh, Zoom Node, and Zoom survivability solutions help
        reduce bandwidth, optimize performance, and improve business continuity.

Several Zoom advanced enterprise offerings including end-to-end encryption, GDPR and privacy controls,
management dashboards, and other capabilities are already available with Zoom Workplace Enterprise licenses
while other features, including these new products, are available as paid add-ons. For more information on Zoom’s
advanced enterprise offerings, please visit the Zoom advanced enterprise website. Zoom will also host technical
sessions on its enterprise offerings at Zoomtopia 2024 for those interested in learning more.

About ZoomZoom’s mission is to provide one platform that delivers limitless human connection. Reimagine
teamwork with Zoom Workplace — Zoom’s open collaboration platform with AI Companion that empowers teams to
be more productive. Together with Zoom Workplace, Zoom’s Business Services for sales, marketing, and customer

                                                                                                       Page 3 of 3
  Zoom introduces new advanced enterprise offerings to boost efficiency, reliability, security, and compliance for
                                         enterprise organizations

care teams, including Zoom Contact Center, strengthen customer relationships throughout the customer lifecycle.
Founded in 2011, Zoom is publicly traded (NASDAQ:ZM) and headquartered in San Jose, California. Get more
information at zoom.com.

Zoom Public RelationsTravis Isamanpress@zoom.us


Load-Date: September 24, 2024


  
