

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 5
                        Intermap Announces Third Quarter Revenue Grew 241% Year-Over-Year




    Intermap Announces Third Quarter Revenue Grew 241% Year-Over-Year
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                           November 14, 2024 Thursday 1:00 PM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: EARNINGS RELEASES AND OPERATING RESULTS; CONFERENCE CALLS/ WEBCASTS
Length: 2071 words

Body

Company reported revenue of $5 million, net income of $1.1 million

Airborne platform accelerating data collection for Indonesian mapping program

Affirming 2024 guidance of $16-18 million in revenue with ~25% adjusted EBITDA margin

Conference call today at 4:30 pm EST to discuss results

DENVER, Nov. 14, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Intermap Technologies (TSX: IMP; OTCQB: ITMSF)
(“Intermap” or the “Company”), a global leader in 3D geospatial products and intelligence solutions, today
announced results for the third quarter of 2024.

Financial Highlights
    •     Revenue of $5 million, up 241% from $1.5 million in the third quarter of 2023
    •     Acquisition Services revenue grew to $2.9 million from nil in the third quarter of 2023 as the Company
          accelerated data collection for the Indonesian mapping program
    •     Value-added Data revenue increased to $1.1 million, compared with $0.4 million in the third quarter of
          2023
    •     30% adjusted EBITDA margin, compared with a loss in the third quarter of 2023 as the Company benefited
          from operating leverage with higher revenue and attractive contribution margins

“Intermap is building long-term, sustainable value for shareholders and executing our business strategy,” said
Patrick A. Blott, Intermap Chairman and CEO. “We’re deployed in Indonesia where we’re leveraging specialized
sensors, proprietary processing and advanced AI/ML technology to deliver mission-critical, strategic geospatial
solutions. We look forward to a long-term, multi-faceted partnership with Indonesia.”

                                                                                                        Page 2 of 5
                       Intermap Announces Third Quarter Revenue Grew 241% Year-Over-Year

“Our global perils and defense businesses are thriving because there is no substitute for Intermap’s exquisite
global-scale, military quality location data,” Mr. Blott continued. “In a time of unprecedented natural catastrophes
and conflict, Intermap provides clients around the world with precision elevation data that saves lives and property.
As our customers see the value of this data in the wake of recent events, they are renewing and expanding their
contracts.”

Intermap continues to execute on its Indonesia mapping program, leveraging AI/ML and other advanced proprietary
technology. With recent advances in production processing automation combined with unmatched expertise and
experience in feature extraction and radar interpretation, Intermap completed the first 5,900+ map sheets at
1:5,000-scale in fewer than 3.5 months from day one of data acquisition. This set of map sheets represents over
25,000 square kilometers of contiguous area coverage of elevation and multi-band, orthorectified radar imagery
deliverables; it also includes an orthorectified, full-feature stack with land, feature and object classifications. The
initial processing was accomplished in parallel with ongoing production of the remaining 85% of Phase 1 of the
project. All remaining deliverables will follow in a shorter timeframe relative to the initial delivery.

Financial Results, Business Highlights and Business Outlook by Segment

Acquisition Services
    •   Financial Results
        •    Revenue for the quarter totaled $2.9 million, compared with nil for the prior year quarter. The increase
             is due to acceleration of data collection for the Sulawesi contract. Last year, Intermap experienced a
             delay in the award of key government contracts, reducing its acquisition services revenue
    •   Business Highlights
        •    Acquired 15% of the data as part of the Company’s Sulawesi contract, which represents approximately
             10% of Indonesia’s land mass
    •   Business Outlook
        •    As Indonesia’s partner for phase one of Indonesia’s national topographic basemap program, Intermap
             is establishing the foundation for a multiyear Acquisition and Value-added Data partnership to support
             Indonesia’s One Map initiative through 2028
        •    One Map’s progress and World Bank’s recent approval for a $653 million Integrated Land
             Administration and Spatial Planning project underscores the importance of precise 3D geospatial data
             to fulfill mission-critical strategic data infrastructure requirements
        •    Intermap is well positioned to capitalize on this trend and anticipates further wins and the expansion of
             existing contracts throughout Southeast Asia

Value-added Data
    •   Financial Results
        •    Revenue increased to $1.1 million for the quarter compared with $0.4 million for the prior year quarter.
             The increase was primarily due to the expansion of the U.S. Air Force contract
    •   Business Highlights
        •    Selected with CACI, Inc. by the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency as one of the qualified
             vendors for an important program, with a total project value of up to $290 million over five years – 10x
             the size of the initial budget
        •    Won a second phase in its prime contract with the U.S. Air Force to support its development of
             navigation solutions for GPS-denied environments. Revenue in this second phase is 5x the size of
             phase one
    •   Business Outlook

                                                                                                       Page 3 of 5
                     Intermap Announces Third Quarter Revenue Grew 241% Year-Over-Year

        •   Customers continue to renew and add capacity as their usage surpasses their expectations and
            contract limits. Further bolstering subscription revenue, customers are adding on Intermap’s innovative
            solutions

Software and Solutions
    •   Financial Results
        •   Revenue decreased slightly to $1.0 million from $1.1 million for the third quarters of 2024 and 2023,
            respectively. While recurring subscription revenue increased 3%, 2023 included $0.2 of one-time set
            up fees that were not duplicated in the third quarter of 2024
        •   Excluding one-time payments from two European accounts, Intermap’s continuing global customers
            grew subscription revenue 8% to $0.8 million in the third quarter compared with the same period a year
            ago
        •   For the first nine months of 2024, Software and Solutions revenue represented 30% of total revenue
    •   Business Highlights
        •   Expanded the multiyear subscription contract value with a Top-15 global insurance carrier by over 50%
    •   Business Outlook
        •   The Company projects its insurance software subscription business to continue growing at a CAGR of
            approximately 20% over the next few years

Operating Costs
    •   Increased to $3.5 million, compared with $2.1 million for the prior year quarter, driven by an increase of
        $1.2 million in Purchased Services & Materials and $162 thousand in deployment travel
    •   Both cost increases were related to increased activity, subcontractor and other project related costs for the
        data acquisition project that accelerated in the third quarter of 2024

Balance Sheet & Capital Expenditures

Cash and accounts receivable totaled $1.5 million at September 30, 2024. Cash milestone payments for Indonesia
are heavily weighted towards finished product deliveries during the fourth quarter of 2024 and first quarter of 2025.

In the third quarter, the Company raised aggregate gross proceeds of approximately CAD $3,305,956 through the
issuance of an aggregate 7.3 million Class “A” common shares at a price of CAD $0.45 per common share.
Aggregate net proceeds are being used for the execution of contracts with the Indonesian government, U.S. Air
Force and other clients as well as for working capital.

Following a successful capital upgrade and certification of its sensor payload and airborne platform to meet
stringent geospatial data specifications in Indonesia, total assets increased by $4.4 million to $8.9 million.

2024 GuidanceIntermap affirms its 2024 guidance for total bookings in the range of $20 – 25 million, with revenue
in the range of $16 – 18 million and Adjusted EBITDA margin of approximately 25%.

Q3 2024 Conference Call today at 4:30pm EST

Intermap’s CEO Patrick A. Blott, CFO Jennifer Bakken and COO Jack Schneider will host a live webinar today, at
4:30 pm ET / 2:30 pm MT to review the results, provide Company updates and answer investor questions following
the presentation.

Intermap invites shareholders, analysts, investors, media representatives and other stakeholders to attend the
earnings webinar to discuss Q3 2024 results.

Webinar Details

                                                                                                           Page 4 of 5
                      Intermap Announces Third Quarter Revenue Grew 241% Year-Over-Year

                     DATE:                                      Thursday, November 14, 2024
       TIME:         4:30 pm ET / 2:30 pm MT
       WEBINAR:      Register

Investor ConferencesIntermap Chairman and CEO Patrick Blott presented on September 26, 2024 at Planet
MicroCap Showcase: VANCOUVER 2024 and will continue to meet investors at industry conferences.

Quarterly FilingThe Company’s consolidated financial statements for the quarter ended September 30, 2024, along
with management’s discussion and analysis for the corresponding period and related management certifications for
third quarter financial results will be filed on SEDAR+ at www.sedarplus.ca on November 14, 2024.

Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure. The term Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
(EBITDA) consists of net loss and excludes interest (financing costs), taxes, and depreciation. Adjusted EBITDA
also excludes share-based compensation, fair value adjustments and foreign currency translation.

See “Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures” in Company’s Management’s Discussion and Analysis filed on
SEDAR+ at www.sedarplus.ca.

Learn more about Intermap at intermap.com/investors.

Intermap Reader AdvisoryCertain information provided in this news release constitutes forward-looking statements,
including reference to revenue, bookings and adjusted EBITDA projections or growth. The words "anticipate",
"expect", "project", "estimate", "forecast", “will be”, “will consider”, “intends” and similar expressions are intended to
identify such forward-looking statements. Although Intermap believes that these statements are based on
information and assumptions which are current, reasonable and complete, these statements are necessarily subject
to a variety of known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Intermap’s forward-looking statements are subject to
risks and uncertainties pertaining to, among other things, cash available to fund operations, availability of capital,
revenue fluctuations, nature of government contracts, economic conditions, loss of key customers, retention and
availability of executive talent, competing technologies, common share price volatility, loss of proprietary
information, software functionality, internet and system infrastructure functionality, information technology security,
breakdown of strategic alliances, and international and political considerations, as well as those risks and
uncertainties discussed Intermap’s Annual Information Form and other securities filings. While the Company makes
these forward-looking statements in good faith, should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or
should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary significantly from those expected.
Accordingly, no assurances can be given that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will
transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what benefits that the Company will derive therefrom. All subsequent
forward-looking statements, whether written or oral, attributable to Intermap or persons acting on its behalf are
expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. The forward-looking statements contained in
this news release are made as at the date of this news release and the Company does not undertake any obligation
to update publicly or to revise any of the forward-looking statements made herein, whether as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by applicable securities law.

About Intermap TechnologiesFounded in 1997 and headquartered in Denver, Colorado, Intermap (TSX: IMP;
OTCQX: ITMSF) is a global leader in geospatial intelligence solutions. The Company’s proprietary 3D NEXTMap®
elevation datasets and value-added geospatial collection, processing, analytics, fusion and orthorectification
software and solutions are utilized across a range of industries that rely on accurate, high-resolution elevation data.
Intermap helps governments build authoritative geospatial datasets and provides solutions for base mapping,
transportation, environmental monitoring, topographic mapping, disaster mitigation, smart city integration, public
safety and defense. The Company’s commercial applications include aviation and UAV flight planning, flood and
wildfire    insurance, environmental and renewable      energy planning, telecommunications, engineering,       critical
infrastructure monitoring, hydrology, land management, oil and gas and transportation. For more information,
please visit www.intermap.com.

                                                                                           Page 5 of 5
                    Intermap Announces Third Quarter Revenue Grew 241% Year-Over-Year

For more information, please contact: Jennifer BakkenExecutive Vice President and CFOCFO@intermap.com +1
(303) 708-0955

Sean PeasgoodInvestor RelationsSean@SophicCapital.com +1 (647) 260-9266


Load-Date: November 14, 2024


  
