

                                                                       Page 1 of 3
  HOW MEGATRENDS AFFECT ADVANCEMENT OF GENDER EQUALITY & WOMEN'S EMPOWERMENT IN
                               ASIA AND THE PACIFIC




   HOW MEGATRENDS AFFECT ADVANCEMENT OF GENDER EQUALITY &
         WOMEN'S EMPOWERMENT IN ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
                                                       IPS - Inter Press Service
                                                     November 7, 2024 Thursday



Copyright 2024 IPS - Inter Press Service/Global Information Network

Length: 1271 words
Byline: Srinivas Tata - Christine Arab - Channe Lindstrom Oguzhan
Dateline: BANGKOK, Thailand, Nov 7 2024

Body


The Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action, adopted in 1995 during the Fourth World Conference on Women,
remains a cornerstone in the global pursuit of gender equality and women's empowerment. With the Asia-Pacific
Ministerial Conference on the Beijing+30 Review fast approaching, now is the time to reflect on the progress made
and the challenges that remain in Asia and the Pacific.

Despite significant strides in women's education and health, and some progress made in women's political
representation in the past three decades, progress towards gender equality appears to be stagnating, and even
regressing in some areas such as labour force participation. Women in all their diversity continue to face significant
barriers.

Gender-based violence, discrimination, and women's disproportionate responsibility for unpaid care work, persist
across the region. Women continue to perform up to five times more care work than men. And in South Asia,
projections show there will be 129 poor women for every 100 poor men by 2030. The level of political will to address
these issues remains inadequate.

Moreover, women and girls have been disproportionately affected by multiple and inter-related crises. The
socioeconomic fallout of the COVID-19 pandemic, the triple-planetary crisis (climate change, pollution and
biodiversity loss), food insecurity, energy crises and growing digital divides disproportionately impact women, with
vulnerable groups hit hardest.

Commemorating the 30th anniversary of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action

The upcoming Ministerial Conference in Bangkok from 19-21 November 2024 as well as the CSO Forum
immediately preceding the conference will be a platform for enhanced cooperation among member States and key
stakeholders. It will:

· Evaluate Progress: Assess the implementation of the Beijing Declaration across the region, identifying
successes and areas for improvement.

                                                                       Page 2 of 3
  HOW MEGATRENDS AFFECT ADVANCEMENT OF GENDER EQUALITY & WOMEN'S EMPOWERMENT IN
                               ASIA AND THE PACIFIC

· Heighten Ambitions: Encourage Member States to set more ambitious gender equality targets within the 2030
Agenda for Sustainable Development.

· Foster Collaboration: Promote regional cooperation and share good practices.

· Innovate Solutions: Highlight innovative approaches that can drive gender equality, such as digital inclusion and
green economy initiatives.

In addressing these objectives, the series of deliberations will also consider the impact of megatrends, including
poverty and inequality; demographic changes; urbanization; digitalization and AI. The importance of a just transition
must be emphasized to ensure economic shifts benefit women equally, which will in turn benefit all of society.

As underscored during the Summit of the Future, taking decisive actions now is essential to safeguard the rights of
future generations and ensure an inclusive, sustainable world.

While notable progress has been made across the Asia-Pacific region, further advancements will depend on how
we address recurring challenges:

Megatrends Shaping Gender Equality

Climate change: A just transition to sustainable economies must consider the social implications for disadvantaged
groups, including women in vulnerable situations. Women are disproportionately affected by job losses in traditional
sectors and increased care responsibilities. Ensuring access to new opportunities, such as green jobs, is essential.

Additionally, policies must address gender-specific vulnerabilities, promote women's leadership in climate action,
and ensure that transitions are inclusive and equitable. Also, climate-induced disasters in the Asia-Pacific region
disproportionately impact women and girls, highlighting the urgent need for increased attention to resilience-building
initiatives and gender-responsive disaster risk reduction (DRR) strategies that empower and protect them in the
face of escalating environmental risks.

Inequalities: Poverty and inequality often wear a woman's face because women are disproportionately affected by
economic disparities and lack access to opportunities for education, employment, and healthcare. Women are more
likely to engage in unpaid care work and informal employment, which offers little social protection.

Cultural norms and discrimination further limit women's access to resources. Targeted policies are critical to
achieving gender equality. Women and girls facing intersecting forms of inequalities require greater partnerships
and greater representation so that policies and services address their specific challenges, prevent further
discrimination, and allow for all women to equally benfit from the region's rapid growth and innovation.

Demographic shifts, particularly population aging: The Asia-Pacific region is experiencing both a youth bulge and
rapid aging, each with significant gendered impacts. For countries experiencing a youth bulge, a demographic
dividend is possible but is hindered by high unemployment and limited educational opportunities, disproportionately
affecting young women and heightening risks of instability.

In aging populations, gaps in social protection and healthcare access particularly burden older women, who often
lack retirement benefits due to informal, lower-paid work histories. Addressing these dual shifts requires policies
that recognize unpaid care work and invest in the care economy, ensuring equitable support across age groups.

Urbanization: Rapid urbanization creates opportunities but also increases vulnerabilities, such as challenges in
accessing services and exposure to violence. Gender-responsive urban planning can ensure women benefit from
urban growth. This includes creating safe public spaces, accessible and affordable care services, safe
transportation, and affordable housing that can accommodate women's needs.

The emergence of digital technologies: The advancement of digital technologies and AI presents opportunities for
empowering women through access to information, education, and economic opportunities. However, technology is

                                                                       Page 3 of 3
  HOW MEGATRENDS AFFECT ADVANCEMENT OF GENDER EQUALITY & WOMEN'S EMPOWERMENT IN
                               ASIA AND THE PACIFIC

widening inequalities in the region and increasingly being used to mete out violence against women and girls and
gender biases in AI algorithms persist, perpetuating existing inequalities. Only 30% of the workforce in the
renewable energy sector are women.

Looking forward to November!

The Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action remains a vital framework for achieving gender equality in Asia and
the Pacific. We look forward to discussing these issues with a broad range of stakeholders at the upcoming
Ministerial Conference.

This conference represents a crucial moment to reflect on progress, address ongoing challenges, and seize new
opportunities to empower women and girls. When coming together, we can foster innovative solutions and build a
more equitable and prosperous future for all, ensuring that the aspirations of the Beijing Declaration are fully
realized for generations to come.

Additional information is available on the ESCAP and UN Women dedicated websites for the Asia-Pacific Ministerial
Conference on the Beijing+30 Review:

https://www.unescap.org/events/2024/asia-pacific-ministerial-conference-beijing30-review In Focus: Beijing+30 in
Asia Pacific

Srinivas Tata is Director, Social Development Division; Christine Arab, Regional Director, UNWOMEN and Channe
Lindstrøm Oguzhan, Social Affairs Officer, Social Development Division.

Source: ESCAP

IPS UN Bureau

Follow                                     @IPSNewsUNBureau                                            !function(d,s,id){var
js,fjs=d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0],p=/^http:/.test(d.location)?'http':'https';if(!d.getElementById(id)){js=d.createEl
ement(s);js.id=id;js.src=p+'://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js';fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js,fjs);}}(document, 'script',
'twitter-wjs');


Load-Date: November 8, 2024


  
