

                                                                                                    Page 1 of 3
          Verizon Partners with Knightscope to Power Connectivity for Advanced Public Safety Technologies
                     Knightscope's K5 GOV Autonomous Security Robot has Received FedR....




   Verizon Partners with Knightscope to Power Connectivity for Advanced
  Public Safety Technologies; Knightscope's K5 GOV Autonomous Security
   Robot has Received FedRAMP Approval to Serve the U.S. Department of
                              Veterans Affairs
                                                  Business Wire
                                     November 14, 2024 Thursday 2:35 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 910 words
Dateline: MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.

Body


Knightscope, Inc. [Nasdaq: KSCP] ("Knightscope" or the "Company"), an innovator in robotics and artificial
intelligence ("AI") technologies focused on public safety, today announces a partnership with Verizon Business to
provide secure, reliable connectivity for the deployment of Knightscope's K5 security robots and K1 emergency
communication devices to help elevate safety at commercial and government facilities.

This      press      release     features   multimedia.            View       the      full     release      here:
https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20241114609690/en/

Knightscope Partners with Verizon Business to improve public safety. (Photo: Business Wire)

This collaboration marks a significant advancement in autonomous security technology, with the K5, powered by
the Verizon network, now holding a Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program ( FedRAMP ) Authority to
Operate (ATO) designation from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, a key endorsement of the K5's security
compliance.

"Verizon is committed to enhancing public safety by providing seamless and secure connectivity to the latest in
autonomous security technology," said Tom Long, an associate director for Verizon's federal business. "Our
partnership with Knightscope is a testament to the importance of secure, reliable connectivity in helping safeguard
public spaces, and we look forward to further elevating these capabilities through 5G integration."

The Knightscope K5 ASR is designed to patrol autonomously around the clock in large outdoor spaces, including
during extreme weather, making it well-suited for securing government facilities. When equipped with Verizon's 4G
LTE connectivity-and with plans to integrate 5G in the near future-the K5 ASR leverages advanced real-time data
transmission and monitoring capabilities, autonomously recharging and operating independently to maintain
continuous surveillance. The integration of Verizon's network services provides critical connectivity for the
Knightscope Security Operations Center (KSOC) interface, offering organizations enhanced oversight with audio,
video, and warning systems to help better safeguard public spaces.

                                                                                                  Page 2 of 3
        Verizon Partners with Knightscope to Power Connectivity for Advanced Public Safety Technologies
                   Knightscope's K5 GOV Autonomous Security Robot has Received FedR....

In addition to the K5 ASR, Verizon provides connectivity for Knightscope's K1 Blue Light Tower and Blue Light E-
Phones, wireless emergency communication devices (ECDs) ideal for expansive outdoor areas. The K1 ECDs
operate independently 24/7 and feature voice connectivity, broadcast alerts, and illumination capabilities to assist
first responders and protect communities, even in harsh conditions. Knightscope will also have access to Verizon
Frontline , the advanced network, and technology for first responders.

"With Verizon's connectivity, Knightscope's autonomous security robots are transforming safety and security for
organizations like the VA," said Knightscope CEO William Santana Li. "Additionally, Verizon is enabling
Knightscope to provide one-touch access to services such as police, fire, and EMS at hospitals, universities, and
corporate campuses in times of danger, personal crisis, or medical emergencies."

According to Verizon, the partnership with Knightscope is the latest milestone in the company's efforts to serve as
the go-to technology partner for the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. Last year, Verizon was awarded part of a
$448.3 million , nine-year expansion with VA medical centers and health care facilities to supply mobile devices
and, through Verizon Frontline, mission-critical communications support during the VA's disaster recovery missions
and other emergencies. Also, in partnership with the VA Palo Alto Health Care System, Verizon has deployed a full
spectrum private 5G network across that facility, providing next-generation, campus-wide, full-spectrum, hybrid
commercial and private 5G environment.

About Knightscope

Knightscope builds cutting-edge technologies to improve public safety, and our long-term ambition is to make the
United States of America the safest country in the world. Learn more about us at www.knightscope.com .

Forward-Looking Statements

This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as "should,"
"may," "intends," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "projects," "forecasts," "expects," "plans," "proposes" and
similar expressions. Forward-looking statements contained in this press release and other communications include,
but are not limited to, statements about the Company's goals, profitability, growth, prospects, reduction of
expenses, and outlook. Although Knightscope believes that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking
statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there are a number of risks, uncertainties and other important
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements, including the
factors discussed under the heading "Risk Factors" in Knightscope's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2023, as updated by its other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-
looking statements speak only as of the date of the document in which they are contained, and Knightscope does
not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements, except as may be required by law.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20241114609690/en/


CONTACT: Public Relations:
Stacy Stephens
Knightscope, Inc.
(650) 924-1025


http://www.businesswire.com



Graphic

                                                                                                  Page 3 of 3
        Verizon Partners with Knightscope to Power Connectivity for Advanced Public Safety Technologies
                   Knightscope's K5 GOV Autonomous Security Robot has Received FedR....



Knightscope Partners with Verizon Business to improve public safety. (Photo: Business Wire)


Load-Date: November 14, 2024


  
