

                                                                                                     Page 1 of 2
               Tintri Introduces Advanced Kubernetes Data Management with New VMstore CSI Driver




Tintri Introduces Advanced Kubernetes Data Management with New VMstore
                               CSI Driver
                                                           PR Newswire
                                        November 6, 2024 Wednesday 9:00 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 726 words
Dateline: CHATSWORTH, Calif., Nov. 6, 2024

Body


PR NewswireVMstore CSI delivers key VMstore performance, data protection and observability features to the
Kubernetes ecosystemCHATSWORTH, Calif., Nov. 6, 2024 /PRNewswire/ -- Tintri®, a subsidiary of DDN®, and
leader in AI-powered data management solutions, today announced the availability of Tintri'sVMstore™ features to
Kubernetes environments with its new VMstore Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver. The Tintri VMstore
platform provides unparalleled visibility into performance, data protection and management for virtual machine
workloads, with a focus on simplicity. The CSI driver provides VMstore customers with that same insight within
Kubernetes environments to easily manage all container and VM workloads through one interface.Tintri Introduces
Advanced Kubernetes Data Management with New VMstore CSI DriverVMstore Cloud Native CSI DriverThe
VMstore CSI driver allows admins to manage all data using familiar Tintri interfaces and tools to reduce complexity
in hybrid VM/container environments.

The driver enables dynamic provisioning and automatic attachment and detachment of volumes to containers. With
cloud native application support, VMstore integrates into platforms that support raw CSI access to efficiently
manage data for microservices-based deployments."Tintri's new IO-aware CSI driver is the most adaptable data
management platform for Kubernetes, transforming how IT administrators handle Kubernetes environments in both
cloud and on-prem," said Brock Mowry, CTO, Tintri. "The VMstore CSI driver empowers administrators, regardless
of their Kubernetes expertise, with the essential tools to efficiently manage and optimize data across physical and
virtual clusters."Key Features and BenefitsAdvanced Observability and Management: VMstore customers
leveraging containers in their environments gain comprehensive insights into data movement and activity. The
VMstore CSI driver enables easy management of workload transitions between cloud environments, enhancing
operational efficiency through automated performance tuning. In addition, ETPH analytics provide insight to
optimize cloud storage costs.Exceptional Performance and Control: The VMstore CSI driver leverages Tintri's TxOS
industry leading performance, analysis and optimization capabilities, allowing admins to dynamically manage
container performance and autonomously prioritize application workloads in real time. Leveraging Tintri Global
Center (TGC), admins can manage multiple VMstores serving as Kubernetes clusters either globally or locally
through a single pane of glass.Robust Data Protection and Recovery: With the VMstore TxOS integration, Tintri
brings superior data protection and disaster recovery to Kubernetes environments, including snapshots and cloning
of persistent volumes or large data sets, ensuring consistent storage, secure data management and efficient
recoverability.Silicon Sky, an innovative and forward-thinking IT infrastructure and managed security services
provider, implemented TintriVMstoresolutions as the backbone of its Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) and Disaster

                                                                                                       Page 2 of 2
             Tintri Introduces Advanced Kubernetes Data Management with New VMstore CSI Driver

Recovery as a Service (DRaaS) business. Silicon Sky is leveraging the Tintri CSI driver within its data centers, both
in the cloud and on-premises. "By providing primary storage, disaster recovery and data protection in one solution,
we simplify and enhance IT operations," said Tim Averill, US CTO, Silicon Sky.Availability

VMstore CSI support will be available to customers in Q4 2024. For more information, please contact a Tintri sales
representative or visittintri.com/contact-us/.About Tintri

Tintri, a wholly owned subsidiary of DataDirect Networks (DDN), delivers purpose-built solutions to store and
manage virtual workloads in enterprise data centers. Thousands of customers have saved countless administrative
hours using Tintri's innovative technologies. Explore the Tintri portfolio of solutions atwww.tintri.com.Contact
InformationWalt & Company, representing Tintri
Sharon Sumrit
©2024 All rights reserved. DDN, Tintri, and VMstore are trademarks or registered trademarks owned by DataDirect
Networks. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.                      View original
content:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/tintri-introduces-advanced-kubernetes-data-management-with-
new-vmstore-csi-driver-302297163.htmlSOURCE Tintri


Load-Date: November 6, 2024


  
