

                                                                                                    Page 1 of 3
     Whatfix Recognized as a Digital Adoption Platform (DAP) Leader for the Fifth Consecutive Year and a Star
                                           Performer for the Third Year




Whatfix Recognized as a Digital Adoption Platform (DAP) Leader for the Fifth
         Consecutive Year and a Star Performer for the Third Year
                                                           PR Newswire
                                         November 14, 2024 Thursday 7:00 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 1331 words
Dateline: SAN JOSE, Calif., Nov. 14, 2024

Body


PR Newswire- 2024 PEAK Matrix® Assessment Features Whatfix as a Leader in the Inaugural Regional Reports
for North America and Europe- Strengthens Leadership Position with One of the Highest Scores in Buyer
Satisfaction, Value Delivered, Market Presence, and AI InnovationSAN JOSE, Calif., Nov. 14, 2024 /PRNewswire/ -
-Whatfix, a global leader among digital adoption platforms (DAPs), today announced that the company has been
recognized as a Leader for the fifth consecutive year and a Star Performer for the third year and second
consecutive year in the Everest Group Digital Adoption Platform (DAP) PEAK Matrix® Assessment 2024. Whatfix is
also recognized as a Leader in the inaugural regional reports for North America and Europe in the DAP category.
The Everest Group PEAK Matrix®, a trusted framework for assessing market impact, vision, and capabilities,
evaluated 25 DAP software providers in its 2024 report, helping enterprises make well-informed purchasing
decisions.

 Whatfix has showcased remarkable capability and impact in the digital adoption landscape, achieving top scores in
portfolio mix, value delivered, vision and strategy, implementations and support, and engagement and commercial
model. Whatfix was selected as one of only three DAP technology providers to receive the "Leader" title based on
an evaluation of its vision and capabilities as well as market impact, including value delivered to clients. The
company was also one of only four Star Performers, achieving one of the highest scores for value delivered and
buyer satisfaction. Its strong market presence, extensive lifecycle expertise, and advanced AI-driven innovations
underscore Whatfix's role in providing exceptional value to clients. This progress in the yearly recognition
underscores Whatfix's consistent industry leadership, impressive year-over-year growth, and unwavering
commitment to driving innovation that is shaping the future of the DAP category."Whatfix's deep expertise in driving
digital adoption has been crucial to its success, as evidenced by its recognition as a Leader and Star Performer in
the global Digital Adoption Platforms (DAP) PEAK Matrix® Assessment 2024," says Sharath Hari N, Vice President
at Everest Group. "This highlights Whatfix's multi-product strategy, including advanced product analytics, which
effectively addresses adoption challenges throughout the application lifecycle. Their extensive global reach allows
them to serve a wide range of industries, while advancements in AI significantly enhance user experiences. The
Rise 2 Excellence Partner Program further empowers partners to boost sales and customer success. With a
continued focus on user experience and robust customer support, Whatfix is well-positioned to maintain its
leadership in the rapidly evolving DAP market."Key factors contributing to Whatfix's recognition include:Multi-
Product Strategy & Global Presence: Whatfix employs a multi-product strategy to effectively address adoption

                                                                                                   Page 2 of 3
    Whatfix Recognized as a Digital Adoption Platform (DAP) Leader for the Fifth Consecutive Year and a Star
                                          Performer for the Third Year

challenges throughout the entire application lifecycle. Its extensive global footprint enables the company to serve
clients across a wide variety of industries. Whatfix has recorded the highest growth rate in DAP revenue,
maintaining its market momentum and positioning itself among the top providers by market share in key industry
verticals and regions.Expansion of the Product Suite: Whatfix is broadening its product offerings to target different
aspects of an application lifecycle, including Mirror, its application simulation tool that provides a secure, hyper-
realistic setting for users to practice and master new tools without affecting live systems. It also provides product
analytics that encompasses both product and guidance analytics, as well as Enterprise Insights. The distinctive Ask
Whatfix AI feature further sets it apart by translating natural language inquiries into insightful trend visualizations,
simplifying the decision-making process. To enhance collaboration among content creators, it has introduced
Comments, allowing users to tag colleagues and share links to pages. Whatfix supports a robust content lifecycle
management system, offering various environments for creating and testing walkthroughs before publication. It has
implemented visibility rules within the editor that allow precise control over when, where, and to whom the content is
displayed, enhancing the overall user experience through behavioral targeting informed by product analytics.AI &
GenAI-Driven Enhancements: As a leader in AI advancements, Whatfix utilizes AI and GenAI to improve its product
functionalities, such as generating summarized responses to user queries, auto-filling text fields, elaborating text,
and delivering real-time insights into user satisfaction through survey analysis.Dual Data Center Disaster Recovery
for Seamless Operations: Whatfix is distinguished by its strong disaster recovery capabilities, operating two
identical data center infrastructures simultaneously. In the event of a disruption in one data center, the other takes
over seamlessly, guaranteeing zero downtime and uninterrupted operations. Organizations with data security and
privacy concerns will appreciate Whatfix's flexible deployment options, which include on-premises, private cloud,
and hybrid hosting solutions.Commitment to Customer Satisfaction and User Support: Whatfix is consistently
recognized for its responsive customer service, comprehensive platform functionalities, and valuable analytics, with
clients highlighting these as primary strengths. The company achieved one of the highest scores for buyer
satisfaction and value delivered in 2023. Its robust support for mobile and desktop applications, including virtual
desktop solutions on Citrix, differentiates it in the market."Our continued recognition by Everest Group reaffirms
Whatfix's position as a leader in the DAP space. Our customer-first approach and relentless focus on innovation
beyond DAP has enabled us to deliver unparalleled value to global enterprises worldwide," said Khadim Batti, CEO
and co-founder of Whatfix. "We're proud to offer a solution that empowers organizations to drive user adoption,
maximize their technology investments and enhance user productivity."This recognition comes on the heels of
Whatfix's recent $125 million Series E funding, which is driving the company's efforts to enhance its integrated
product suite beyond DAP through both organic growth and strategic acquisitions. With this momentum, Whatfix will
further solidify its market presence in the US, EMEA, and APAC regions, expand into the Middle East, and
strengthen its position within the global public sector.Click hereto read the Everest Group Digital Adoption Platform
(DAP) PEAK Matrix® Assessment 2024.About Whatfix

Whatfixis advancing the "userization" of application technology, by empowering companies to maximize the ROI of
digital investments across the application lifecycle. Powered by GenAI, Whatfix's product suite includes a digital
adoption platform, simulated application environments for hands-on training, and no-code application analytics.
Whatfix enables organizations to drive user productivity, ensure process compliance, and improve user experience
of internal and customer-facing applications. With seven offices across the US, India, UK, Germany, Singapore, and
Australia, Whatfix supports 700+ enterprises, including 80+ Fortune 500s like Shell, Microsoft, Schneider Electric,
UPS Supply Chain Solutions, and Genuine Parts Company. Backed by investors such as Warburg Pincus,
Softbank Vision Fund 2, Dragoneer, Peak XV Partners, Eight Roads, and Cisco Investments, software clicks with
Whatfix. For more information, visit theWhatfixwebsite.Media Contact
 View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/whatfix-recognized-as-a-
digital-adoption-platform-dap-leader-for-the-fifth-consecutive-year-and-a-star-performer-for-the-third-year-
302305306.htmlSOURCE Whatfix


Load-Date: November 14, 2024

                                                                                                 Page 3 of 3
  Whatfix Recognized as a Digital Adoption Platform (DAP) Leader for the Fifth Consecutive Year and a Star
                                        Performer for the Third Year



