

                                                                             Page 1 of 5
      EYEING SUSTAINABILITY: CHINA'S GREEN DEVELOPMENT AGENDA EMPOWERS SMALL ISLAND
       DEVELOPING COUNTRIES TO ADDRESS CLIMATE CHALLENGES, PROMOTE RESILIENCE: TOP
                                          REMOTE....




   EYEING SUSTAINABILITY: CHINA'S GREEN DEVELOPMENT AGENDA
  EMPOWERS SMALL ISLAND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES TO ADDRESS
 CLIMATE CHALLENGES, PROMOTE RESILIENCE: TOP REMOTE SENSING
                            SCIENTIST
                                               States News Service
                                         September 25, 2024 Wednesday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 2336 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: BEIJING, China

Body


The following information was released by the Chinese Academy of Sciences:

Editor's Note:

China has long been committed to addressing global climate change and promoting sustainable development
through technological innovation and international cooperation. Recently, the Global Times reporter Shan Jie (GT)
interviewed Guo Huadong (Guo), an Academician of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and the Director-General of
the International Research Center of Big Data for Sustainable Development Goals (CBAS), to discuss the role of
big Earth data in helping Small Island Developing States (SIDS) achieve sustainable development and improve
their disaster response capabilities.

GT: How do you view the role of big Earth data in helping SIDS to achieve sustainable development goals and
enhance disaster response capabilities? What kind of support can the CBAS provide to these countries?

Guo: We have been done a lot of work in the field of big data technology, and it is widely recognized that big data
plays a crucial role in helping SIDS achieve their sustainable development goals and address the challenges of
natural disasters.

Moreover, resources are also changing. Through big Earth data, we integrate various data sources, including
satellite remote sensing, meteorology, and ecology, to offer a comprehensive, timely, and accurate means of
monitoring and analyzing ecological environments and natural disasters. This plays a significant role in facilitating
sustainable development goals.

The challenges faced by SIDS make big data especially important. Our research center can contribute significantly
in several ways. First, these countries lack data in their development processes, whereas our center has abundant

                                                                            Page 2 of 5
     EYEING SUSTAINABILITY: CHINA'S GREEN DEVELOPMENT AGENDA EMPOWERS SMALL ISLAND
      DEVELOPING COUNTRIES TO ADDRESS CLIMATE CHALLENGES, PROMOTE RESILIENCE: TOP
                                         REMOTE....

big Earth data resources. Second, these countries also lack methodologies, but we have established a scientific big
data platform and identified that our satellite data resources have significant advantages in terms of technological
tools and model development. Third, these countries lack the relevant talent, and we can provide training.

Our center has five major missions, with the fourth and fifth missions focusing on training talent in developing
countries. The Small Island Developing States Capacity Building Workshop on Utilizing big Earth data for
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) is one such example of our specific efforts in this regard.

In conclusion, big Earth data provides strong support for SIDS in addressing climate change and promoting
sustainable development. We are committed to continuing to drive technological innovation and capacity building in
this area, supporting these nations achieve safer and greener development.

GT: In September, you and your team released a series of data products for SIDS covering marine and land
heatwaves, coral bleaching thermal stress, and etc. What new products will be released in the future?

Guo: Climate change has triggered a series of disasters, which are key global concerns and have a significant
impact on sustainable development. Our big Earth data research focuses on greenhouse gases, particularly carbon
dioxide and methane emissions, as well as the carbon sequestration capacity of natural ecosystems. In terms of
natural disasters, we monitor global floods, droughts, heatwaves, and other disaster types, and analyze the impact
of these disasters on populations and economies using spatial information. The released global mangrove remote
sensing product has already played a role in combating climate change and promoting sustainable development.

To address global climate change and disaster challenges, we have made contributions in greenhouse gas
emissions and natural disaster monitoring. For example, despite the increasing trend of global meteorological
droughts, severe drought impacts have decreased due to human irrigation efforts, which shows the vital role of
irrigation in mitigating drought. Looking ahead, climate change will continue to pose a long-term threat to humanity.

Recently, we collaborated with scholars worldwide and published an article in Innovation from the perspective of
global governance, proposing a synergy between climate change responses and sustainable development goals,
aiming to enhance efficiency and reduce costs.

GT: You have witnessed the development of China's remote sensing technology alongside the nation. Could you
share your observations and insights?

Guo: The development of remote sensing has been synchronized with China's reform and opening-up. China's
reform began in 1978, the same year we started large-scale airborne remote sensing experiments, such as the
Tengchong Airborne Remote Sensing Experiment, which used domestically developed payloads to observe
resources in Tengchong, Southwest China's Yunnan Province. This experiment marked the beginning of China's
remote sensing history.

After that, our remote sensing communities conducted environmental remote sensing in the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei
region in North China, followed by remote sensing for site selection for the Ertan Hydropower Station in Southwest
China's Sichuan.

We refer to these three projects as the "three major battles," which officially opened the chapter of China's remote
sensing history.

At the same time, China's reform and opening-up also unfolded. Therefore, I have always believed that remote
sensing has progressed in tandem with China's reform and opening-up. Over the last 46 years, China's remote
sensing technology has made significant advances. In satellite remote sensing, China has developed
meteorological satellites, ocean satellites, resource satellites, and environmental satellites, and even sustainable
development satellite and other scientific satellite systems, with commercial satellites developing rapidly as well.
The progress is not only in spaceborne remote sensing but also in airborne remote sensing and remote sensing
data processing software.

                                                                            Page 3 of 5
     EYEING SUSTAINABILITY: CHINA'S GREEN DEVELOPMENT AGENDA EMPOWERS SMALL ISLAND
      DEVELOPING COUNTRIES TO ADDRESS CLIMATE CHALLENGES, PROMOTE RESILIENCE: TOP
                                         REMOTE....

These remote sensing technologies have been applied extensively in resources, environment, energy, and other
fields, achieving significant progress. China has become one of the global leaders in remote sensing technology,
which has played a crucial role in monitoring resources and the environment, supporting national economic
construction, social development, and national security.

International cooperation has also been integral to the development of remote sensing. In 2016, I initiated the
Digital Belt and Road program (DBAR), aimed at leveraging digital technology to promote the Belt and Road
Initiative. Initially, 28 countries participated, and it has now expanded to 59 countries with nine international
excellence centers. Remote sensing has played a vital role in advancing global cooperation and development.

I also launched the "ABCC Plan," a comparative study of climate change remote sensing involving Australia, Brazil,
China, and Canada. The aim of this plan is to utilize these countries' remote sensing capabilities to analyze and
compare the impacts of global climate change.

GT: After years of working with remote sensing satellites as your "eyes" to observe the Earth, how do you view the
improvement of China's ecological environment?

Guo: The improvements are clear. We often refer to remote sensing satellites as the "eyes in the sky," which offer a
broader perspective than our human eyes. Remote sensing technology can observe objects across the full
spectrum of electromagnetic waves, enabling effective observations even at night. For example, remote sensing
satellites can detect not only the presence of water, but also analyze its transparency. High-resolution satellites can
even accurately determine how many solar panels and wind turbines are installed in China.

Every year from 2019, we write a report entitled Big Earth Data in Support of Sustainable Development Goals.
These reports provide detailed assessments of progress toward sustainable development goals through big data
analysis. For example, in 2023, we found that China had achieved more than half of the total environment-related
sustainable development goals ahead of schedule, with over 52 among 92 indicators showing significant
improvement. This is especially impressive given the global context of climate change, the pandemic, and economic
slowdowns.

GT: What role do you think digital Earth plays in global sustainable development? What are the main challenges in
its practical application and promotion?

Guo: The concept of digital Earth was proposed at the first International Symposium on Digital Earth in 1999. When
a journalist asked me how I would describe digital Earth, I replied: "Digital Earth is about putting the Earth into a
computer." Digital Earth gives us a comprehensive view of the Earth. As the concept of big data has evolved, digital
Earth has entered the era of big data.

Big data offers a new paradigm for digital Earth. Its primary task is to use various algorithms and tools to extract
knowledge from diverse, massive, and complex Earth data, develop relevant theories, and explain the mechanisms
of social and physical systems to ensure the protection and sustainable development of the Earth. This is critical for
achieving global sustainable development goals.

The challenges mainly lie in several areas: First, we need to strengthen research on theories, technologies, and
methodologies to drive science and technology development through data. Second, with the rapid development of
artificial intelligence and deep learning, data processing technologies must continuously innovate. Furthermore, it
is essential to make our scientific platforms and data model resources accessible globally, especially for developing
countries. In the future, we will build think tanks that leverage global resources to accelerate the realization of
sustainable development goals.

GT: How does CBAS contribute to national and international sustainable development progress?

Guo: Since its inception, the center has achieved numerous accomplishments. We successfully launched China's
first sustainable development science satellite, equipped with thermal infrared, glimmer, and multi-band imagers.

                                                                            Page 4 of 5
     EYEING SUSTAINABILITY: CHINA'S GREEN DEVELOPMENT AGENDA EMPOWERS SMALL ISLAND
      DEVELOPING COUNTRIES TO ADDRESS CLIMATE CHALLENGES, PROMOTE RESILIENCE: TOP
                                         REMOTE....

The satellite data has been well utilized, with users from 104 countries worldwide downloading our data through
SDGSAT-1 Open Science program, continuously promoting global data sharing.

Our data is already being used by several United Nations agencies, including the United Nations Environment
Programme (UNEP) and the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). Additionally, our reports on Big Earth Data
in Support of the Sustainable Development Goals are released by state leaders at international events. For
instance, the 2019 report was one of four official documents submitted by China's delegation to the 74th session of
the United Nations General Assembly.

The center has made significant contributions to international cooperation as well. We have signed memoranda of
understanding with various UN agencies, such as UNEP and FAO. The center's SDGSAT-1 has been highly
recognized by the central government and is listed as one of China's seven major actions to implement the 2030
Agenda.

We have also initiated the International Forum on Big Data for Sustainable Development Goals (FBAS), which has
now been held for four years and has become a high-level think tank in the field of sustainable development around
the world. The center has established a global cooperation network, attracting eight international institutions and six
domestic partners. We also formed a Fellowship program comprising internationally renowned scholars, including
former presidents of the UN General Assembly and former directors-general of UNESCO, which has greatly
enhanced the center's international influence.

In 2023, Csaba Krosi, the President of the 77th United Nations General Assembly, visited the center and said he
saw the most advanced technologies and achievements, and found like-minded partners. He said that his dream
had come true that day, which was a great recognition of our work.

GT: What is the state of global data sharing? Are there still barriers?

Guo: In terms of data sharing, we have always believed that if data cannot be effectively shared, the potential of big
data cannot be realized. Therefore, since the center's inception, we have attached great importance to data
sharing. Our first sustainable development satellite has achieved global open sharing, and 104 countries are now
using our data.

I want to emphasize that while our satellite investment is not large, it has already provided significant data support
to many countries. For instance, out of the 193 UN member states, 104 have used our data. More than 100
research papers have been published using our data, which is also a recognition of the scientific value of our work.

Moreover, based on these data, we have released several reports for the United Nations and signed cooperation
agreements with several international organizations to promote global data sharing and application.

GT: What replicable and scalable experiences can be drawn from the SIDS training program?

Guo: Although the number of SIDS is limited, they face common challenges, especially the threats posed by climate
change and rising sea levels. The United Nations places great importance on these countries. In facing these
challenges, they have a strong need for data and technical support.

We provide data support and technical training for small island countries. For instance, we promise to offer the data
they need and help them compile relevant reports. Through the training workshops, they have learned how to
access and analyze big Earth data, enhancing their capacity to respond to climate change and disasters. This
training model can be extended to other developing countries.

Overall, the experiences from the SIDS training program can serve as valuable references for other developing
nations, helping them address climate change and achieve sustainable development through data-driven solutions,
capacity building, and international cooperation. (Global Times)

                                                                           Page 5 of 5
    EYEING SUSTAINABILITY: CHINA'S GREEN DEVELOPMENT AGENDA EMPOWERS SMALL ISLAND
     DEVELOPING COUNTRIES TO ADDRESS CLIMATE CHALLENGES, PROMOTE RESILIENCE: TOP
                                        REMOTE....


Load-Date: September 25, 2024


 
