

                                                                                Page 1 of 2
               REP. KENNEDY ANNOUNCES $475,000 UB GRANT FOR WIND TUNNEL RESEARCH




    REP. KENNEDY ANNOUNCES $475,000 UB GRANT FOR WIND TUNNEL
                          RESEARCH
                                                   States News Service
                                                September 16, 2024 Monday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 612 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: BUFFALO, N.Y.

Body


The following information was released by the University at Buffalo - SUNY:

By Cory Nealon

BUFFALO, N.Y. The University at Buffalo will receive a $475,000 federal grant to purchase equipment that supports
wind tunnel research into hurricanes, thunderstorm downbursts and other extreme weather events.

The funding, announced today at Ketter Hall by Rep. Tim Kennedy, comes from the National Institute of Standards
and Technology. It will further solidify UBs position as one of the nations most dynamic universities for multi-hazard
engineering research, with a focus on disaster resilience.

Communities are facing natural disasters with increasing frequency and intensity, Kennedy said. With this funding,
we take preparedness to the next level, building in protective measures from the ground up and ultimately
strengthening critical infrastructure and saving lives.

UB will use the award to purchase instruments for its multi-fan wind tunnel, which is part of the universitys Structural
Engineering and Earthquake Simulation Laboratory. Each of the wind tunnels 64 fans can be individually controlled,
allowing researchers to reproduce and study complex wind events.

This funding will help enable UB to further its mission of serving people and communities threatened by extreme
weather, said Kemper Lewis, PhD, dean of the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences.

It will also provide incredible opportunities to educate students both graduate and undergraduate students with
cutting-edge tools that are critical to solving societys greatest challenges. We thank Congressman Tim Kennedy for
his continued leadership and support of UB.

Specifically, UB will add to the wind tunnel:

                                                                               Page 2 of 2
              REP. KENNEDY ANNOUNCES $475,000 UB GRANT FOR WIND TUNNEL RESEARCH

Passive turbulence generators. These instruments enable researchers to efficiently and accurately generate the
atmospheric boundary layer the lowest layer in Earths atmosphere directly influenced by its surface in extreme wind
events.

High-performance workstations that leverage the power of artificial intelligence to enable the wind tunnel to
generate targeted transient wind fields with greater accuracy and efficiency.

Servo motors for experiments that address how wind loads impact buildings, bridges and other structures affected
by aging, climate change and other factors.

These new instruments will greatly enhance the capabilities of UBs multi-fan wind tunnel, which is designed to
reproduce, at scale, the effects of extreme winds, including hurricanes and tornadoes, said Andrew Whittaker, PhD,
the grants principal investigator and SUNY Distinguished Professor in the Department of Civil, Structural and
Environmental Engineering.

Research using the upgraded wind tunnel will support the development of new engineering tools and methods for
the delivery of cost-effective infrastructure, including buildings and long-span bridges, that is resilient to extreme
winds.

Teng Wu, PhD, professor of civil engineering and a wind engineer, noted that extreme wind events are becoming
more common and damaging, pointing out that several tornadoes have touched down in Western New York over
the past few months.

If we can reproduce these complex wind fields in a controlled environment such as this tunnel, we can better
understand how extreme winds interact with the built environment, including buildings, long-span bridges and
industrial infrastructure, Wu said.

With an understanding of this interaction, we can both develop engineering and simulation tools to design resilient
structures and revise building and construction standards as needed to meet societal needs.

Media Contact Information

Cory Nealon

Director of Media Relations

Engineering, Computer Science

Tel: 716-645-4614

cmnealon@buffalo.edu


Load-Date: September 17, 2024


  
