

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 3
   HEAVY.AI Accelerates Big Data Analytics with Vultr's High-Performance GPU Cloud Infrastructure Partnership
                           enables enterprises across core sectors such as energ....




   HEAVY.AI Accelerates Big Data Analytics with Vultr's High-Performance
   GPU Cloud Infrastructure; Partnership enables enterprises across core
  sectors such as energy, public sector, and telecommunications to achieve
             substantial speed improvements and cost savings
                                                   Business Wire
                                     September 10, 2024 Tuesday 1:00 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.

Length: 1027 words
Dateline: WEST PALM BEACH, Fla.

Body

Vultr , the world's largest privately held cloud computing platform, today announced a partnership with GPU-
accelerated analytics platform provider HEAVY.AI . Integrating Vultr's global NVIDIA GPU cloud infrastructure into
its operations, HEAVY.AI can interactively query and visualize massive datasets, enabling faster, more efficient
decision-making for customers across diverse sectors.

"Partnering with Vultr has allowed us to leverage their highly performant, global NVIDIA GPU cloud infrastructure to
provide our customers with better access to unparalleled speed and efficiency," said Jon Kondo, CEO of
HEAVY.AI. "This integration ensures that our platform continues to deliver the rapid insights and cost savings that
are critical for our customers' success."

Now, thanks to Vultr's advanced GPU infrastructure, HEAVY.AI can deliver the best performance at an affordable
price. The NVIDIA GH200 Grace Hopper(TM) Superchip joins NVIDIA A100 Tensor Core GPUs and Vultr Bare
Metal instances to form a powerful trio that drives faster insights via HEAVY.AI's platform. With the NVIDIA GH200
running on Vultr Cloud, HEAVY.AI can deliver 5X or greater price performance when compared to 8XA100
instances, completing industry-standard analytic SQL benchmarks such as TPC-H100 in less than 4.5 seconds,
and executing 11 of the 22 queries in less than 100 milliseconds.

"Vultr is one of the first cloud providers to offer the revolutionary NVIDIA GH200 Grace Hopper Superchip," said
Todd Mostak, Co-Founder and CTO of HEAVY.AI. "By tapping into the immense GPU compute and CPU-GPU
bandwidth that is unique to the NVIDIA GH200, we now can offer our customers even greater performance and
scale while significantly reducing costs, empowering businesses to derive insights faster and more efficiently than
ever before."

Building on its mission to democratize access to big data analytics, HEAVY.AI offers a comprehensive software
suite that allows organizations to query, analyze, and visualize complex datasets, with a particular focus on location
and time series data. With performance that is often orders of magnitude faster than CPU-based solutions,
HEAVY.AI provides analysts, data scientists, data engineers, and geospatial professionals across industries with a
complete view of their data, helping them understand the "what, when, and where" with unparalleled clarity.

                                                                                                 Page 2 of 3
  HEAVY.AI Accelerates Big Data Analytics with Vultr's High-Performance GPU Cloud Infrastructure Partnership
                          enables enterprises across core sectors such as energ....

Through its collaborations with NVIDIA and now Vultr, HEAVY.AI has optimized its platform for the latest NVIDIA
hardware to provide best-in-class performance, providing significant advantages to industries that rely on fast data
processing. Specifically:
    •   Energy: accelerating big data analytics for sectors such as renewable energy for wind, solar, and biomass.
    •   Telecommunications: expediting faster and deeper understanding of LTE and 5G networks, and enhancing
        customer experiences.
    •   Urban planning & smart cities: accelerating the sector with GeoAI solutions, which analyze urban data to
        optimize infrastructure, transportation, and public services; and driving advanced utility analytics on big
        smart meter, IoT, and Earth observation datasets, for hidden risks visualization, and uninterrupted uptime.
    •   Environmental monitoring, geospatial intelligence, and disaster response: analyzing satellite and drone
        data to detect changes in land use; assessing damage from natural disasters faster; and automatic change
        detection and socio-economic analysis.

"As enterprises across sectors look to train and scale their models, they are looking for industry and use case-
specific solutions to help them accelerate growth and innovation," said Kevin Cochrane, CMO of Vultr. "Our
partnership with HEAVY.AI is yet another example of Vultr being committed to unlocking the next frontier of GPU-
accelerated analytics for some of the most data-intensive workloads across key sectors."

This news follows the company's recent launch of its industry cloud solution, which delivers industry-vertical,
cutting-edge cloud computing solutions that meet specific industry needs and regulatory requirements. Through its
partnership with HEAVY.AI, Vultr is reaffirming its commitment to both empowering customers across verticals and
building an ecosystem of best-of-breed technologies, tools, and services that enable them to easily build and scale
cloud-native and AI-native initiatives.

To learn more about the HEAVY.AI and Vultr partnership, visit us here .

About HEAVY.AI

HEAVY.AI provides a groundbreaking GPU-accelerated analytics platform that empowers organizations to instantly
query and visualize multi-billion-record datasets, including geospatial and time-series data, delivering a complete
view of what is happening, when, and where. By integrating massive data volumes from multiple sources,
HEAVY.AI provides an immersive, real-time interactive visual analytics experience. Industry leaders in
telecommunications, energy, government, utilities, and higher education rely on HEAVY.AI to drive high-impact
decisions at unprecedented speeds. Born from research at Harvard and MIT's Computer Science and Artificial
Intelligence Laboratory (CSAIL), HEAVY.AI is backed by GV, In-Q-Tel, New Enterprise Associates (NEA), NVIDIA,
Tiger Global Management, Vanedge Capital, and Verizon Ventures. Headquartered in San Francisco, HEAVY.AI is
reshaping data analytics. Learn more about HEAVY.AI .

About Vultr

Vultr is the world's largest privately-held cloud computing platform that delivers unparalleled ease of use,
performance, pricing, and reach. With 1.5M customers across 185 countries, Vultr is the leading alternative
hyperscaler, serving enterprise-grade businesses in financial services, telecom, healthcare & life sciences, retail,
media & entertainment, manufacturing, and more.

Vultr's Cloud Compute, Cloud GPU, Bare Metal, Managed Kubernetes, Managed Databases, Cloud Storage, and
Networking solutions give customers global reach and performance while eliminating complexity and cost so that
they can easily deploy and scale their cloud-native and AI-native applications worldwide.

Learn more at: www.vultr. com .

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240910576934/en/

                                                                                                 Page 3 of 3
  HEAVY.AI Accelerates Big Data Analytics with Vultr's High-Performance GPU Cloud Infrastructure Partnership
                          enables enterprises across core sectors such as energ....



CONTACT: Jordan Tewell
415-666-6066

10Fold Communications for HEAVY.AI

heavyai@10fold.com Janabeth Ward
Scratch Marketing + Media for Vultr

vultrpr@scratchmm.com


http://www.businesswire.com


Load-Date: September 10, 2024


  
