

                                                                                                Page 1 of 3
       Partnership for Public Service Announces 2024 Samuel J. Heyman Service to America Medal Winners




  Partnership for Public Service Announces 2024 Samuel J. Heyman Service
                          to America Medal Winners
                                                     Targeted News Service
                                        September 10, 2024 Tuesday 11:17 AM EST



Copyright 2024 Targeted News Service LLC All Rights Reserved




Length: 1522 words
Byline: Targeted News Service
Dateline: WASHINGTON

Body


The Partnership for Public Service issued the following news release on Sept. 9, 2024:

***

Nancy Alcantara, Shannon Rebolledo and Justin Uphold of the Department of Labor will be honored as Federal
Employees of the Year for their investigation of child labor law violations.

***

The nonpartisan, nonprofit Partnership for Public Service today announced its 2024 Samuel J. Heyman Service to
America Medal(R) winners, a group of extraordinary public servants who have helped our government innovate,
save lives and deliver critical services to the public.

Considered the "Oscars" of government service, and better known as "the Sammies," the awards have earned a
reputation as the premier recognition program for excellence and leadership in the federal government. The
Partnership will celebrate this year's honorees at its 23rd annual awards ceremony on Wednesday, Sept. 11 at the
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.

The 2024 Federal Employees of the Year are Nancy Alcantara, Shannon Rebolledo, Justin Uphold and the Packers
Sanitation Leads Team at the Department of Labor. They discovered extensive child labor violations that involved
102 children ages 13 to 17, who were illegally working at 13 meatpacking plants in eight states. This investigation
resulted in a historic fine against the company, sweeping changes in how the Labor Department conducts child
labor enforcement, and the launch of a national initiative to identify and address child labor.

The achievements of the 2024 winners span many critical areas of our government's work, including removing tons
of hazardous materials from the Maui wildfires, developing new AI tools for patent and trademark systems, and
creating the world's first tornado-resistant building codes. This year's honorees also pioneered policies to improve

                                                                                               Page 2 of 3
      Partnership for Public Service Announces 2024 Samuel J. Heyman Service to America Medal Winners

government services and the customer experience, revolutionized bee disease diagnosis and treatment, and
helped prevent fatalities from roof falls and underground mining disasters.

"As we recognize the winners of this year's Sammies on the 23rd anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks - a stark
reminder of the vital importance of effective government - we honor their passion, hard work and dedication, along
with that of the more than 2 million civil servants who have answered the call to serve our country," said Max Stier,
president and CEO of the Partnership for Public Service. "During a time when federal workers face more scrutiny
and damaging rhetoric than ever, these talented individuals have embodied the highest standards of public service
in America. With the coming change in presidential administrations, our nonpartisan, merit-based civil service will,
as always, provide the critical continuity of government that is so vital for our democracy."

In addition to the six medalists, the Partnership will present its seventh annual Spirit of Service Award, which
recognizes individuals outside the federal workforce who have made a significant contribution to build a better
government and a stronger democracy. This year, actor Chris Evans, filmmaker Mark Kassen, and technology
entrepreneur Joe Kiani will accept the Spirit of Service Award on behalf of A Starting Point, a video-based platform
they co-founded in 2020 to create a more informed electorate and greater civic engagement.

Stand-up comic and television host W. Kamau Bell will serve as the ceremony's emcee. Special gala speakers will
include White House Chief of Staff Jeff Zients, Assistant to the President and Cabinet Secretary Evan Ryan,
Commerce Deputy Secretary Don Graves, OMB Deputy Director Jason Miller, USPTO Director Kathi Vidal, and
author and journalist Michael Lewis.

Video tributes to the winners to be shown during the ceremony will feature host Yvette Nicole Brown; actress,
filmmaker, actor, writer and musician Mark Duplass; comedian and singer Ana Gasteyer; big-wave surfer and co-
inventor of tow-in surfing Laird Hamilton; comedian and actor Matt Walsh; and Emmy-nominated actress, writer,
producer and; comedian, actress and writer Sasheer Zamata.

This year, 25 finalists were selected from more than 500 nominations across five award categories. The winners
were chosen by a prestigious selection committee that included leaders from government, business, charitable
organizations, academia, entertainment and the media.

The 2024 Samuel J. Heyman Service to America Medals recipients:

Nancy Alcantara, Shannon Rebolledo, Justin Uphold and the Packers Sanitation Investigation Leads Team of the
Department of Labor (Chicago) are the recipients of the Federal Employee of the Year Medal, the top honor of the
Sammies program. They discovered more than 100 children ages 13 to 17 illegally working on dangerous
machinery in 13 meat slaughterhouses across eight states, leading to a large civil penalty and a new approach to
child labor law enforcement.

Christopher Mark of the Mine Safety and Health Administration (Pittsburgh, Pa.) will receive the Paul A. Volcker
Career Achievement Medal. Mark devoted a lengthy federal career to preventing fatalities from roof falls and other
underground mining disasters, saving countless lives. The Paul A. Volcker Career Achievement Medal is named
after the extraordinary public servant who made a profound difference for our country and was the leading voice on
the value of government service. In 2019, the Partnership renamed the Sammies Career Achievement Medal in his
honor. The Paul A. Volcker Career Achievement Medal is supported by Ray and Barbara Dalio.

Jerry Ma, 27, of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (West Lafayette, Ind.) will be awarded with the Emerging
Leaders Medal. He developed new technology tools for patent office personnel and the public and led efforts to
establish the agency's approach toward using artificial intelligence for inventions seeking patents.

Amira Boland, formerly of the Office of Management and Budget (Washington, D.C.), is the recipient of the
Management Excellence Medal. She pioneered policies to improve government services and the customer
experience in areas ranging from newborn care and disaster assistance to renewing passports online.

                                                                                               Page 3 of 3
      Partnership for Public Service Announces 2024 Samuel J. Heyman Service to America Medal Winners

Marc Levitan and Long Phan of the National Institute of Standards and Technology (Gaithersburg, Md.) will receive
the Science, Technology and Environment Medal. They created the world's first tornado-resistant building codes,
conducting groundbreaking research that will save lives and protect critical facilities like schools, hospitals and
emergency centers from extensive property damage.

Steve Calanog, Tara Fitzgerald and Pete Guria of the Environmental Protection Agency (San Francisco) will be
awarded with the Safety, Security and International Affairs Medal. They directed more than 300 EPA personnel to
remove tons of hazardous materials from the Maui wildfires while respecting local cultural norms and setting
standards for federal response teams that followed.

In addition to the six winners, Yan Ping (Judy) Chen and Jay D. Evans of the Department of Agriculture (Beltsville,
MD) are the recipients of the annual Service to America Medals People's Choice Award, which was presented in
July. Their groundbreaking work revolutionized bee disease diagnosis and treatment. They introduced cutting-edge
technologies to detect virus pathogens and develop novel medicines to enhance bee health and prevent colony
collapse.

The 2024 Service to America Medals program is made possible by the generous support of our sponsors. The
premier sponsor for the 2024 Sammies is Mrs. Ronnie F. Heyman and family. National sponsors are Tom and Andi
Bernstein, Bloomberg Philanthropies, Sharon Marcil and Tom Monahan, Jennifer and David Millstone, SAIC,
Standard Industries, and Patricia A. and George W. Wellde Jr. Capital sponsors are Karan Bhatia,
ConantLeadership, Google, Lockheed Martin, Microsoft, and Indra and Raj Nooyi.

Renamed the Samuel J. Heyman Service to America Medals in 2010 to commemorate the organization's founder,
the program has honored more than 760 outstanding federal employees since its inception in 2002. For profiles and
videos of current and past honorees, and to nominate a federal employee for a 2025 Service to America Medal, visit
servicetoamericamedals.org.

During the past 24 years, the nonpartisan, nonprofit Partnership for Public Service has been dedicated to building a
better government and a stronger democracy. We work across administrations to help transform the way
government works by providing agencies with the data insights they need to succeed, developing effective leaders,
inspiring the next generation to public service, facilitating smooth presidential transitions and recognizing
exceptional federal employees. Visit ourpublicservice.org, follow us @PublicService and subscribe today to get the
latest federal news, information on upcoming Partnership programs and events, and more.

***

Original text here: https://ourpublicservice.org/press-release/partnership-for-public-service-announces-2024-
samuel-j-heyman-service-to-america-medal-winners/

[Category: Government/Public Administration]

Copyright Targeted News Services

T40-MgEditor-8807584 T40-MgEditor


Load-Date: September 10, 2024


  
