

                                                                                                    Page 1 of 2
                      VIETNAMESE PRIME MINISTER ATTENDS 27TH ASEAN- JAPAN SUMMIT




   VIETNAMESE PRIME MINISTER ATTENDS 27TH ASEAN-JAPAN SUMMIT
                                              States News Service
                                            October 11, 2024 Friday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 602 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: HO CHI MINH CITY, Vietnam

Body


The following information was released by the Government of Vietnam:

Prime Minister Pham hailed the success of the commemorative summit marking the 50th anniversary of the
ASEAN-Japan relations in December 2023, desbribing the summit as a historic milestone heralding a new era of
the bilateral cooperation.

He suggested ASEAN and Japan cooperate to spur linkages in economics, trade, supply chain consolidation,
infrastructure, national defense, maritime security, transnational crime combat, cybersecurity, along with natural
disaster management and response.

As economic, trade and investment cooperation remains the key driving force of the ASEAN-Japan relations, Pham
called on Japanese investors to step up investments in ASEAN, suggested Japan assist ASEAN in joining
Japanese bussiness' supply chains, developing auxiliary industries and high-quality workforce.

He urged the two sides to promote new growth drivers from emerging fields like digital transformation,
semiconductor, cloud computing, internet of things, energy transition, green economy, circular economy, smart
agriculture among others.

Pham also called on Japan to continue cooperation and assistance for ASEAN Member States and Mekong Sub-
region to cope with climate change, accelerate food transition and implement their emission commitments, including
through Japan's Asia Zero Emission Community (AZEC), in order to strength resilience and sustainability across
the region.

The Vietnamese Prime Minister underscored that ASEAN and Japan should strengthen strategic coordination for
peace, security and stability in the region.

From that perspective, he urged Japan to continue its support for ASEAN's common position on the East Sea, for
peaceful resolution of disputes, for early formulation of an effective and substantive Code of Conduct in the East
Sea in line with international law, especially the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, towards
building the East Sea into the sea of peace, stability, cooperation and sustainable development.

                                                                                                          Page 2 of 2
                    VIETNAMESE PRIME MINISTER ATTENDS 27TH ASEAN- JAPAN SUMMIT

At the summit, leaders of ASEAN Member States and Japan welcomed positive progress of the ASEAN-Japan
relations over the recent past.

Japan is the fourth largest trading partner of ASEAN, with the two-way trade reaching US$239.4 billion in 2023.

The Northeast Asian nation is the 5th biggest investor in ASEAN, with the FDI flows to the bloc stood at US$14.5
billion last year.

The leaders reaffirmed their resolve to continue close coordination in implementing their commitments, initiatives
and the outcomes of the commemorative summit marking the 50th anniversary of the ASEAN-Japan relations,
including the Joint Vision Statement and the plan to implement this Statement.

The leaders agreed that ASEAN and Japan will continue strengthening economic, trade, investment cooperation,
consolidating supply chain, promoting infrastructure connectivity.

Both sides agreed to foster cooperation in the fields of defense, maritime security, transnational crime combat,
cybersecurity, natural disaster management and prevention.

The two sides will give high priority to cooperation in science, technology, innovation, artificial intelligence, digital
transformation, green infrastructure development, energy, climate change, and people-to-people exchanges.

Japanese Prime Minister Ishiba Shigeru underscored the importance of the ASEAN-Japan comprehensive strategic
partnership, which has ceaselessly been consolidated and developed over the past five decades.

Ishiba reaffirmed Japan's commitment to continue strengthening cooperation with and assistance for building a
united ASEAN Community./.


Load-Date: October 11, 2024


  
