

                                                                             Page 1 of 2
     FROM 'CLIMATE HAVEN' TO DISASTER ZONE: HOW HURRICANE HELENE BECAME THE PERFECT
                       STORM TO DEVASTATE WESTERN NORTH CAROLINA




 FROM 'CLIMATE HAVEN' TO DISASTER ZONE: HOW HURRICANE HELENE
   BECAME THE PERFECT STORM TO DEVASTATE WESTERN NORTH
                           CAROLINA
                                                States News Service
                                              October 1, 2024 Tuesday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 699 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: BOSTON, Mass.

Body


The following information was released by Northeastern University:

by Cynthia McCormick Hibbert

October 1, 2024

Before the aftermath of Hurricane Helene dumped more than 30 inches of rain on some parts of western North
Carolina and led to historic flooding that has killed more than 30 people in the mountainous region, Asheville was
known as a "climate haven."

News reports say people were moving to the city that houses the historic Biltmore Estate to escape extreme heat in
the summer, sea level rise and hurricanes.

The mudslides and floods that have swept away children and their grandparents and others in the foothills and
mountains of North Carolina were a risk that few saw as imminent, say Northeastern University professors Auroop
Ganguly and Samuel Munoz.

The catastrophe, says Ganguly, distinguished professor of civil and environmental engineering, is an example of a
"gray swan" event.

Gray swans happen when "places not thought to be at risk may not be immune anymore to the ravages of weather
extremes that are relatively 'unprecedented' in the region," he says.

The path of Hurricane Helene from landfall as a Category 4 hurricane in the Big Bend region of Florida's Gulf
coastline to western North Carolina was "fairly unusual," says Munoz, associate professor of marine and
environmental sciences at Northeastern's Marine Science Center.

"Usually a hurricane hits land and then very quickly fizzles out," he says. That was not the case for Helene.

                                                                             Page 2 of 2
     FROM 'CLIMATE HAVEN' TO DISASTER ZONE: HOW HURRICANE HELENE BECAME THE PERFECT
                       STORM TO DEVASTATE WESTERN NORTH CAROLINA

It barrelled up into the Appalachian mountains, where its moisture was forced up into cooler air and rapidly
condensed.

"You had moisture-laden air hitting a mountain range, and that produced a lot of rain," Munoz says. Visualize the
storm as a water-soaked sponge hitting a wall, he says. "You're squeezing out a lot of moisture quickly."

While research is still underway on the exact ways climate change is affecting hurricanes, there is scientific
consensus that warmer water and air temperatures mean that hurricanes will produce more precipitation, Munoz
says.

"Hurricanes may grow less frequent," Ganguly says. "But there have been claims that the warmer waters may fuel
stronger hurricanes."

Mountainous slopes expedited the movement of water, Munoz says. "You get a lot of rain hitting these steep
slopes. That water moves fast and causes these flash floods."

In the Asheville region, floods and mudslides closed hundreds of roads, damaged the water system, shut down cell
service, isolated whole communities and killed at least 35 people in Buncombe County alone.

It created what Ganguly calls a "textbook case" of cascading failures to critical infrastructure.

In total at least 130 people have been killed in six states, including from falling trees and tornadoes associated with
Helene, according to media reports. More than a million people were without power as of early Tuesday.

Munoz says the National Weather Services forecast of the amounts of rain to deluge western North Carolina was
"pretty spot on."

"It's not clear how much these communities could have prepared for a deluge of that magnitude," he says.

More recent floods in western North Carolina have been more localized, Munoz says. "There are other mechanisms
that can produce a lot of rain, too."

Unlike a black swan event, which is completely unexpected, flooding in North Carolina was a known risk but the
extent of it shocked the region, Ganguly says.

He says the path forward for proactive weather disaster management, including mitigating the risk of catastrophic
flooding in the Appalachian region or anywhere else, will need to rely in part "on human ingenuity, ranging from
hybrid physics-AI based weather prediction and network science-based complex systems control to risk-informed
and science-driven decisions and policies."

Recovery from natural disasters or man-made attacks begins with being prepared, researchers say

Also vitally important are "community adoptions of safety protocols, especially to take care of those who are among
the most vulnerable and the least able to help themselves," Ganguly says.

"Perfect storms can happen in places where they hadn't happened before," he says. "They may be unprecedented,
but they are not impossible any longer."


Load-Date: October 2, 2024


  
