

                                                                                                 Page 1 of 2
     Free and Fast Photo-Matching AI Technology Can Help Reunite Pets with Their Families During and After
                                              Natural Disasters




   Free and Fast Photo-Matching AI Technology Can Help Reunite Pets with
              Their Families During and After Natural Disasters
                                                           PR Newswire
                                            October 8, 2024 Tuesday 6:03 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 649 words
Dateline: SAN ANTONIO, Oct. 8, 2024

Body


PR NewswireNational Lost and Found Pet Database, Love Lost, a Critical Resource After Hurricane HeleneSAN
ANTONIO, Oct. 8, 2024 /PRNewswire/ -- In times of crisis, when natural disasters strike, the bond between pets
and their families can be shattered in an instant. National nonprofitPetco Loveurges people desperately searching
for missing pets during and after Hurricane Helene to use its freeLove Lostnational database to search with just one
photo of their pet powered by AI technology.

 Neighbors can directly help each other in disaster areas reunite lost pets with the families that love them utilizing
Love Lost. This is especially crucial when overwhelmed animal shelters and rescues in the path of the devastation
are working tirelessly rescuing and caring for pets during disasters.Every year, millions of pets are displaced due to
hurricanes, wildfires, floods, and other emergencies. Love Lost aims to bridge the gap between lost pets and their
worried families by providing a comprehensive, user-friendly online resource for reporting and searching for lost
pets. This extensive national database can help locate displaced pets who may unintentionally end up in different
counties or states.Key Features of Love Lost Include:Free and simple search: Pet parents and finders of lost pets
can quickly search for lost/found pets with just one photo.Robust Alerts: Love Lost will search its database for you
and send alerts of possible matches via SMS or email. Community Collaboration: Local shelters and rescue
organizations (3,000 to date), and community platforms like Nextdoor and Neighbors integrate with Love Lost,
creating a collaborative environment for reuniting families."Every pet is a beloved member of the family, and during
a disaster, the uncertainty can be overwhelming," saidSusanne Kogut, president of Petco Love. "Love Lost is
designed to give families hope and the tools they need to find their pets. Love Lost leverages technology and
community support to ensure that pets and their families can be reunited quickly. Petco Love is also committing up
to $1 million in funding to its animal welfare partners impacted by the deadly storms in Florida, Georgia, South
Carolina, North Carolina, Tennessee, and Kentucky."Pet parents can register their safe-at-home pets in the
databasehere. Love Lost can help people in almost any language and provides privacy for those who use it. The
database has reunited nearly 60,000 pet parents across the U.S. with their best friends.Petco Love is also
coordinating its response with other national organizations that are part ofNARSC(National Animal Rescue &
Sheltering Coalition). Animal welfare organizations impacted by disasters may seek support from Petco Love using
the "Apply Now" link onthis page.Media Contact:Crystal Bugary, Petco Love,About Petco Love

                                                                                                Page 2 of 2
    Free and Fast Photo-Matching AI Technology Can Help Reunite Pets with Their Families During and After
                                             Natural Disasters

Petco Love is a life-changing nonprofit organization that makes communities and pet families closer, stronger, and
healthier. Since our founding in 1999 as the Petco Foundation, we've empowered animal welfare organizations by
investing nearly $400 million in adoption and other lifesaving efforts. We've helped find loving homes for more than
6.9 million pets in partnership with Petco and organizations nationwide. Our love for pets drives us to lead with
innovation, creating tools animal lovers need to reunite lost pets, and lead with passion, inspiring and mobilizing
communities and our more than 4,000 animal welfare partners to drive lifesaving change alongside us. Is love
calling you? Join us. VisitPetco Loveor follow us onFacebook,Instagram,X,Threads, andLinkedInto be part of the
lifesaving     work      we      lead     every      day.           View     original    content    to     download
multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/free-and-fast-photo-matching-ai-technology-can-help-
reunite-pets-with-their-families-during-and-after-natural-disasters-302269309.htmlSOURCE Petco Love


Load-Date: October 8, 2024


  
