

                                                                                                    Page 1 of 2
      Algorized Raises $4.3 Million in Seed Funding to Drive Innovation in People-Sensing Technology for Safe
                                             Human-Machine Interaction




Algorized Raises $4.3 Million in Seed Funding to Drive Innovation in People-
         Sensing Technology for Safe Human-Machine Interaction
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                           November 7, 2024 Thursday 9:07 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: FINANCING AGREEMENTS
Length: 599 words

Body


BERKELEY, Calif., Nov. 07, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Algorized, an AI-powered platform pioneering
advanced people-sensing and positioning software, has raised $4.3 million in seed funding to drive innovation in
people sensing and support safer, seamless human-machine interaction. The investment round was led by Amazon
Industrial Innovation Fund, with participation from Acrobator Ventures, Berkeley SkyDeck Fund, CoreNest Capital,
Shucker Ventures and other strategic investors.

With an adoption of robotics and automation across industries, ensuring the safe collaboration of people and
machines is an important challenge. Human detection remains a key area of development, particularly for robots
that need to distinguish people from objects when using cost-competitive and scalable hardware. Algorized
addresses this challenge by offering a sensor-agnostic software-only upgrade that transforms off-the-shelf wireless
sensors into accurate people-sensing solutions.

Algorized employs proprietary machine learning algorithms processed at the edge, unlocking vast amounts of data,
including people flow, demographics, accurate positioning, and vital sign detection in diverse physical
environments. This data-centric approach allows for the effective fusion of various sensor inputs in the multi-modal
platform, enhancing overall system capabilities. Since Ultra-Wideband (UWB) radar technology is rapidly expanding
in vehicles, mobile devices, buildings, Algorized can leverage this existing infrastructure without requiring costly
hardware upgrades.

"Securing this funding enables us to scale our sensor-agnostic platform, extend our team, and execute a growth
strategy that will help us establish a strong foothold in industrial, robotics, and automotive markets,” said Natalya
Lopareva, CEO of Algorized. "Algorized’s AI software transforms wireless sensors into powerful people-sensing

                                                                                                   Page 2 of 2
     Algorized Raises $4.3 Million in Seed Funding to Drive Innovation in People-Sensing Technology for Safe
                                            Human-Machine Interaction

technology, providing a vital layer of intelligence for safeguarding humans, preventing accidents, while supporting
efficient operations."

“At Amazon, we envision a future where people and machines collaborate side-by-side with maximum safety and
efficiency,” said Franziska Bossart, Head of Amazon Industrial Innovation Fund. “We believe Algorized is making
meaningful progress toward this vision through innovative people-sensing AI software. The ability to adapt to
existing sensors makes this technology both accessible and transformative.”

Algorized's journey began with a focus on solutions for life-saving applications, such as locating individuals trapped
in buildings during disaster. Since its inception in 2023, the company has gained remarkable traction with major
industrial players.

About Algorized

Founded on extensive academic research, Algorized enables groundbreaking sensing and positioning applications
through a software-only upgrade to existing commodity sensors. The platform leverages proprietary machine
learning algorithms to access a wealth of data, facilitating real-time positioning and vital sign detection in any
environment. The company is pioneering innovative solutions for sectors ranging from automotive to human-
machine interaction in robotics and beyond. Visit Algorized for more information.

Contact:

Natalya Lopareva+1 510 646 6084contact@algorized.com

A         photo        accompanying        this      announcement         is       available                        at
https://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/826e8935-90c5-48af-9dc3-2f332008705b

People-Sensing Technology for Human-Machine Interaction

A robot sorts and stacks bins at an Amazon fulfillment center in Eastvale. Photograph: MediaNews Group via Getty
Images


Load-Date: November 7, 2024


  
