

                                                                                                   Page 1 of 3
  Nutanix Expands Partnership with AWS New partnership will simplify cloud migrations and offer access to AWS
                           services for on-premises customers leveraging Nutani....




Nutanix Expands Partnership with AWS; New partnership will simplify cloud
 migrations and offer access to AWS services for on-premises customers
               leveraging Nutanix Cloud Clusters on AWS
                                                         GlobeNewswire
                                           November 7, 2024 Thursday 6:01 AM PT



Copyright 2024 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved




Section: PARTNERSHIPS
Length: 1132 words

Body

SAN JOSE, Calif., Nov. 07, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Nutanix (NASDAQ: NTNX), a leader in hybrid
multicloud computing, today announced an expanded strategic collaboration with Amazon Web Services, Inc.
(AWS) to accelerate cloud migration and provide options for customers managing workloads across on-premises
and cloud environments. This aims to reduce the friction required for IT modernization, making it easier for
customers to leverage AWS services to drive innovation.

Through this collaboration, customers can leverage Nutanix Cloud Clusters (NC2) on AWS, which will enable them
to seamlessly extend their on-premises Nutanix environment to AWS. This integration allows organizations to run
their applications on a consistent environment across both on-premises and AWS, and benefit from access to AWS
services, including AWS Databases, Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3), and advanced artificial
intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) services, as well as the security, resiliency, and scalability AWS offers.

“90% of organizations are taking a ‘cloud smart’ approach to their infrastructure strategy – leveraging the best
environment for each of their applications,” said Tarkan Maner, Chief Commercial Officer at Nutanix. “Our
expanded strategic partnership with AWS is a win-win-win for both companies and our customers, as it will help
simplify their cloud migration journeys, accelerate their adoption of AWS using NC2, and open the door to hybrid
cloud and on-prem Nutanix opportunities.”

“Our expanded collaboration with Nutanix represents a significant step forward in simplifying cloud migration, and
helping customers innovate,” said Chris Sullivan, Vice President, Americas Channels & Alliances at AWS. “This
partnership will empower more customers to accelerate their digital transformation journey, allowing them to
leverage the scalability, security, resiliency, and innovation of AWS and its services.”

                                                                                                   Page 2 of 3
  Nutanix Expands Partnership with AWS New partnership will simplify cloud migrations and offer access to AWS
                           services for on-premises customers leveraging Nutani....

NC2 on AWS delivers a cost-effective solution with disaster recovery, data center extension, and application
migration and modernization. This enables intelligent workload placement of applications and data with zero code
changes, and helps break down silos within the IT organization. Additional customer benefits include:
    •   Faster, low-risk app migrations. Move workloads quickly and predictably with the Nutanix Move migration
        tool, without costly application refactoring and, at the same time, minimize migration risks with bi-directional
        portability.
    •   Effortless scale and flexibility. Drive IT automation across the entire hybrid cloud stack, on-premises and in
        the cloud leveraging the elasticity of AWS to manage expected and unexpected capacity demands.
    •   Increase cloud efficiency. Increase cloud resource efficiency to reduce cloud costs through use of bare-
        metal platforms in AWS with a unified control plane, consistent automation mechanisms and lifecycle
        management for virtual machines. Simplify procurement by using AWS Marketplace for all your Nutanix
        software licensing needs.

As part of the collaboration, AWS will also make available promotional credits to support customer migrations and
proof of concepts. Leveraging the AWS VMware Migration Accelerator, customers can gain access to promotional
credits for migrating VMWare on AWS workloads to NC2 on AWS. Additionally, customers migrating workloads
from other clouds or on-premises will also have access to the AWS Migration Acceleration Program benefits,
including a free proof-of-concept trials, migration assessment and support with AWS credits, as well as Nutanix
licensing pricing promotions.

“The collaboration between Nutanix and AWS to offer NC2 on AWS represents a significant leap forward for
Accenture to help clients manage diverse workloads, bridging on-premises and cloud environments,” said Andy
Tay, Cloud First Global Lead at Accenture. “By combining the strengths of Nutanix and AWS, with our industry
knowledge and cloud expertise, we're setting a new standard for clients to be ready for business reinvention
through a strong, integrated digital core, enabling businesses to be more agile and innovative.”

“Today’s enterprises face growing uncertainty in their IT landscapes, but the partnership between Nutanix and AWS
emerges as a strategic solution to enable more seamless migrations to Nutanix Cloud Clusters on AWS. This
collaboration aims to provide customers with the speed and agility needed to navigate today’s dynamic business
environment," Dave Pearson, Research Vice President, IDC.

For more information, please visit www.nutanix.com/aws.

About NutanixNutanix is a global leader in cloud software, offering organizations a single platform for running
applications and managing data, anywhere. With Nutanix, companies can reduce complexity and simplify
operations, freeing them to focus on their business outcomes. Building on its legacy as the pioneer of
hyperconverged infrastructure, Nutanix is trusted by companies worldwide to power hybrid multicloud environments
consistently, simply, and cost-effectively. Learn more at www.nutanix.com or follow us on social media @nutanix.

© 2024 Nutanix, Inc. All rights reserved. Nutanix, the Nutanix logo, and all Nutanix product and service names
mentioned herein are registered trademarks or unregistered trademarks of Nutanix, Inc. (“Nutanix”) in the United
States and other countries. Other brand names or marks mentioned herein are for identification purposes only and
may be the trademarks of their respective holder(s). This press release is for informational purposes only and
nothing herein constitutes a warranty or other binding commitment by Nutanix. This release may contain express
and implied forward-looking statements, which are not historical facts and are instead based on Nutanix’s current
expectations, estimates and beliefs, including statements about: the expanded strategic collaboration, including
AWS’s plans for supporting this collaboration ; and the expected benefits of the collaboration and planned
investment to customers. The accuracy of such statements involves risks and uncertainties and depends upon
future events, including those that may be beyond Nutanix’s control, and actual results may differ materially and
adversely from those anticipated or implied by such statements, including, among others: unexpected difficulties or
delays in realizing the full benefits of the collaboration and planned investment; and our ability to achieve the
specified milestones underlying the investment. Any forward-looking statements included herein speak only as of

                                                                                                   Page 3 of 3
  Nutanix Expands Partnership with AWS New partnership will simplify cloud migrations and offer access to AWS
                           services for on-premises customers leveraging Nutani....

the date hereof and, except as required by law, Nutanix assumes no obligation to update or otherwise revise any of
such forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.

Nutanix Media Contact pr@nutanix.com


Load-Date: November 7, 2024


  
