

                                                                                               Page 1 of 2
   Floodbase's Flood Mapping Accuracy Outperforms National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)




   Floodbase's Flood Mapping Accuracy Outperforms National Oceanic and
                    Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
                                                           PR Newswire
                                        September 4, 2024 Wednesday 9:07 AM EST



Copyright 2024 PR Newswire Association LLC All Rights Reserved

Length: 661 words
Dateline: BROOKLYN, N.Y., Sept. 4, 2024

Body


PR NewswirePeer-reviewed study shows AI-based flood monitoring technology to be 11% more accurate than
current methods, demonstrating the potential of combining machine learning with hydrological modeling to enhance
flood observation and responseBROOKLYN, N.Y., Sept. 4, 2024 /PRNewswire/ -- Astudy publishedtoday
inGeophysical Research Lettersdemonstrates an 11% improvement in Floodbase's flood mapping accuracy as
compared to leading methods, enabling more precise flood monitoring and reduced prices for parametric flood
insurance.

 Scientists and engineers fromFloodbase, a leading flood intelligence and data provider for disaster managers and
re/insurers, developed an AI technique that fuses satellite observations with data from the U.S. National Water
Model (NWM). The peer-reviewed results demonstrate more accurate large-area flood maps of California's 2023
atmospheric river than those produced by NOAA'sNational Water Center.This methodology paves the way for more
robust multi-sensor fusion, which allows Floodbase to add new data sources and improve overall flood mapping
accuracy."Flooding is the mostcommon and costlyweather-related disaster in the U.S.", said Dr. Beth Tellman, Co-
Founder and Chief Science Officer at Floodbase. "This research builds on the already incredible capabilities of the
National Water Center to detect and predict flooding over large land areas, and will enable more accurate flood
monitoring, more affordable flood insurance, and more efficient disaster response across the U.S."Tellman added,
"Flooding coststhe Federal government between $180 and $496 billion each year. This rapid inundation mapping
technology will enable the most vulnerable communities and sectors to better understand and mitigate their flood
risks."In the peer-reviewed academic journalGeophysical Research Letters, Floodbase details its use of deep
learning to integrate satellite observations with outputs from the NWM to map floods in near-real time and with high
resolution. This deep learning model operates at a continental scale, covering large areas like the contiguous
United States (CONUS) on an hourly basis over 45 years. These characteristics, combined with improvements in
accuracy, profoundly improve insurers' ability to understand flood risk. By reducing the uncertainty of flooding in a
particular location, Floodbase enables insurers to offer clients more affordable flood policies, and government
agencies to make evidence-based policy decisions."Amid increasing billion-dollar disasters, it is critical that new
and enhanced technologies be developed and deployed to predict, mitigate, and monitor flood events", said Dr.
Jonathan Frame, the study's primary investigator who led the study at Floodbase and is now an Assistant Professor
at the University of Alabama in the department of Geological Sciences. "In the era of big data, we are excited to use
the latest technology to build on the work done by the National Water Center. This fusion allows us to significantly
improve flood predictability, providing more accurate and timely information that will benefit policy makers, insurers,

                                                                                              Page 2 of 2
  Floodbase's Flood Mapping Accuracy Outperforms National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)

community leaders, and the nation as a whole.About FloodbaseFloodbaseis an end-to-end platform for parametric
flood insurance. Built on nearly a decade of groundbreaking science, our solution continuously monitors flooding
worldwide. Top re/insurers use Floodbase to cover large corporate and public sector clients against previously
uninsurable economic loss from flooding. Floodbase is also used by FEMA, USAID, the UN, The New York Times
and others to identify and more rapidly respond to floods.Contact our team of experts atto partner on parametric
flood insurance solutions that help close the flood insurance gap. View original content to download
multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/floodbases-flood-mapping-accuracy-outperforms-national-
oceanic-and-atmospheric-administration-noaa-302237388.htmlSOURCE Floodbase


Load-Date: September 4, 2024


  
