

                                                                                                         Page 1 of 5
                                               AP News in Brief at 6:09 p.m. EDT




                                      AP News in Brief at 6:09 p.m. EDT
                                                      The Associated Press
                                         September 23, 2024 Monday 10:09 PM GMT



Copyright 2024 Associated Press All Rights Reserved

Section: DOMESTIC NEWS
Length: 1962 words

Body


Lebanon sees deadliest day of conflict since 2006 as Israeli strikes kill 492

MARJAYOUN, Lebanon — Israeli strikes Monday on Lebanon killed more than 490 people, including more than 90
women and children, Lebanese authorities said, in the deadliest barrage since the 2006 Israel-Hezbollah war. The
Israeli military warned residents in southern and eastern Lebanon to evacuate ahead of its widening air campaign
against Hezbollah.

Thousands of Lebanese fled the south, and the main highway out of the southern port city of Sidon was jammed
with cars heading toward Beirut in the biggest exodus since 2006.

Lebanon's health ministry said the strikes killed 492 people, including 35 children and 58 women, and wounded
1,645 people — a staggering one-day toll for a country still reeling from a deadly attack on communication devices
last week.

In a recorded message, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu urged Lebanese civilians to heed Israeli calls to
evacuate, saying “take this warning seriously.”

“Please get out of harm’s way now,” Netanyahu said. “Once our operation is finished, you can come back safely to
your homes.”

___

Is this war? The Israeli-Hezbollah conflict is hard to define — or predict

Israel is bombing targets across many parts of Lebanon, striking senior militants in Beirut and apparently hiding
bombs in pagers and walkie-talkies. Hezbollah is firing rockets and drones deep into northern Israel, setting
buildings and cars alight.

But no one is calling it a war — not yet.

Israeli officials say they are not seeking war with Hezbollah and that it can be avoided if the militant group halts its
attacks and backs away from the border. Hezbollah also says it doesn't want a war but is prepared for one — and

                                                                                                          Page 2 of 5
                                          AP News in Brief at 6:09 p.m. EDT

that it will keep up the strikes on Israel that it began in the wake of ally Hamas' Oct. 7 attack until there is a cease-
fire in Gaza.

Israel and Hezbollah have repeatedly traded fire since then — but the intensity rose to another level Monday, when
Israeli airstrikes killed more than 490 people, according to Lebanese officials. That would make it the deadliest day
in Lebanon since Israel and Hezbollah last went to war in 2006.

“If someone had told me or most analysts in summer 2023 that Hezbollah is striking Israeli bases in Israel, and
Israel is striking southern Lebanon and parts of southern Beirut, I would have said, OK, that’s an all-out war," said
Andreas Krieg, a military analyst at King’s College London.

___

Thousands flee southern Lebanon in search of safety and shelter

BEIRUT (AP) — Thousands of families from southern Lebanon packed cars and minivans with suitcases,
mattresses, blankets and carpets and jammed the highway heading north toward Beirut on Monday to flee the
deadliest Israeli bombardment since 2006.

Some 100,000 people living near the border had already been displaced since October, when the Lebanese militant
group Hezbollah and Israeli forces began exchanging near-daily fire against the backdrop of the war in Gaza. As
the fighting intensifies, the number of evacuees is expected to rise.

In Beirut and beyond, schools were quickly repurposed to receive the newly displaced as volunteers scrambled to
gather water, medicine and mattresses.

In the coastal city of Sidon, people seeking shelter streamed into schools that had no mattresses to sleep on yet.
Many waited on sidewalks outside.

Ramzieh Dawi had arrived with her husband and daughter after hastily evacuating the village of Yarine, carrying
just a few essential items as airstrikes boomed nearby.

___

Gunman who killed 10 at a Colorado supermarket found guilty of murder

BOULDER, Colo. (AP) — A mentally ill man who killed 10 people at a Colorado supermarket was convicted
Monday of murder by a jury that rejected his attempt to avoid prison time by pleading not guilty by reason of
insanity.

Victims’ relatives recounted in pained testimony the lives gunman Ahmad Alissa destroyed in the 2021 attack in the
college town of Boulder.

Nikolena Stanisic, whose only sibling, Neven, was killed, recalled going out to ice cream with her brother the night
before he was shot and how he would sometimes help her with her bills. She told the court that their household --
once filled with talk and laughter -- is now mostly silent.

“To the person that’s done this, we hope that you suffer for the rest of your life. You are a coward,” Stanisic said. “I
hope this haunts the defendant until the end of time. The defendant deserves the absolute worse.”

Defense attorneys did not dispute that Alissa, who has schizophrenia, fatally shot 10 people including a police
officer. But the defense argued he was insane at the time of the attack and couldn’t tell right from wrong.

___

US to seek attempted assassination charge against man accused of staking out Trump at golf course

                                                                                                         Page 3 of 5
                                          AP News in Brief at 6:09 p.m. EDT

WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. (AP) — The man accused in the assassination attempt of Donald Trump at a golf course
in Florida left behind a note detailing his plans to kill the former president and kept in his car a handwritten list of
dates and venues where Trump was to appear, the Justice Department said Monday.

Trump complained that the current holding charges against the man were too light, but prosecutors indicated much
more serious attempted assassination charges were coming.

The new allegations about the note were included in a detention memo filed ahead of a hearing Monday at which
federal prosecutors argued that Ryan Wesley Routh should remain locked up as a flight risk and a threat to public
safety. U.S. Magistrate Ryon McCabe agreed, saying the “weight of the evidence against the defendant is strong”
and ordered him to stay behind bars.

The latest details were meant to bolster the Justice Department's contention that the 58-year-old suspect had
engaged in a premeditated plan to kill Trump, a plot officials say was thwarted by a Secret Service agent who
spotted a rifle poking out of shrubbery on the West Palm Beach golf course where Trump was playing and then
opened fire in Routh's direction.

The note describing Routh's plans was placed in a box that he dropped off months earlier at the home of an
unidentified person who did not open it until after last Sunday's arrest, prosecutors said.

___

Harris owns a gun? Trump wants to cap credit card rates? Party lines blur in campaign's last stretch

NEW YORK (AP) — One presidential candidate is talking up gun ownership and promising tough border security
measures. The other vows to cap credit card interest rates and force insurance companies to cover in vitro
fertilization.

Which one is the Democrat and the Republican?

The lines that have long defined each party's policy priorities are blurring as Kamala Harris and Donald Trump seek
to expand their coalition in the final weeks of a fiercely competitive election. The contest may well hinge on how
many disaffected suburban Republicans vote for Harris and how much of the Democrats’ traditional base — African
Americans, Latinos, young people and labor union members — migrates to Trump.

That's prompting both candidates to take stances that would have once been anathema to their bases, scrambling
longtime assumptions about what each party stands for.

“There’s a whole host of issues that draw people to support President Trump, and quite frankly, these are issues
that used to be core pillar issues of the Democratic Party,” Tulsi Gabbard, a former Democratic congresswoman
from Hawaii who has emerged as a top Trump ally, said in an interview.

___

Texas jury clears most 'Trump Train’ drivers in civil trial over 2020 Biden-Harris bus encounter

AUSTIN, Texas (AP) — A federal jury in Texas on Monday cleared a group of former President Donald Trump
supporters and found one driver liable in a civil trial over a so-called “Trump Train” that surrounded a Biden-Harris
campaign bus days before the 2020 election.

The two-week trial in a federal courthouse in Austin centered on whether the actions of the “Trump Train”
participants amounted to political intimidation. Among those aboard the bus was former Democratic lawmaker
Wendy Davis, who testified she feared for her life while a convoy of Trump supporters boxed in the bus along
Interstate 35.

The jury awarded $10,000 to the bus driver.

                                                                                                    Page 4 of 5
                                         AP News in Brief at 6:09 p.m. EDT

No criminal charges were filed against the six Trump supporters who were sued by Davis and two others aboard
the bus. Civil rights advocates hoped a guilty verdict would send a clear message about what constitutes political
violence and intimidation.

On Oct. 20, 2020, a Biden-Harris campaign bus was traveling from San Antonio to Austin for an event when a
group of cars and trucks waving Trump flags surrounded the bus.

___

OceanGate co-founder says he hopes submersible tragedy yields renewed interest in exploration

The co-founder of the company that owned the experimental submersible that imploded en route to the wreckage of
the Titanic told a Coast Guard panel Monday he hoped the silver lining of the disaster would be that it inspires a
renewed interest in exploration, including the deepest waters of the world's oceans.

“This can’t be the end of deep ocean exploration. This can’t be the end of deep-diving submersibles and I don’t
believe that it will be,” said businessman Guillermo Sohnlein, who helped found OceanGate with Stockton Rush.

Sohnlein ultimately left the company before the Titan disaster in June 2023. Rush was among the five people who
died when the submersible imploded. Though Sohnlein left the Washington company years ago, he spoke in
defense of its efforts in the aftermath of the submersible’s implosion.

On Monday, he testified that the company wanted to create a fleet of four or five deep-diving submersibles capable
of carrying five people to 6,000 meters (6,500 yards) deep. The plan for the company was to have no dedicated
mothership — which would've lowered costs substantially, he said.

“We wanted to give humanity greater access to the ocean, specifically the deep ocean,” Sohnlein said.

___

FBI finds violent crime declined in 2023. Here's what to know about the report

WASHINGTON (AP) — Violent crime in the U.S. dropped in 2023, according to FBI statistics that show a continued
trend downward after a coronavirus pandemic-era crime spike.

Overall violent crime declined an estimated 3% in 2023 from the year before, according to the FBI report Monday.
Murders and non-negligent manslaughter dropped nearly 12%.

Violent crime has become a focal point in the 2024 presidential race, with former President Donald Trump recently
claiming that crime is “through the roof” under President Joe Biden's administration. Even with the 2020 pandemic
surge, violent crime is down dramatically from the 1990s.

Here's what to know about the FBI's report and the state of crime in the U.S.:

_____

___

At the UN, world leaders try to lay out a vision for the future — and actually make it happen

UNITED NATIONS (AP) — The U.N. General Assembly adopted a “Pact for the Future” to meet the challenges of
the 21st century. Now comes the hard part: uniting the world’s divided nations to move quickly to implement the
agreement's 56 actions.

As Czech President Petr Pavel put it Monday at the summit meeting surrounding the pact: “Our work begins at
home.”

                                                                                                      Page 5 of 5
                                        AP News in Brief at 6:09 p.m. EDT

The 193-member world body approved the pact Sunday. The document is meant to link nations in tackling
challenges ranging from climate change and artificial intelligence to escalating conflicts and increasing inequality
and poverty — and improve the lives of the world’s more than 8 billion people.

The 42-page pact was adopted at Sunday’s opening of a two-day “Summit of the Future,” which continued Monday
as leaders of many countries gave their views on the challenges facing the world.

And with those remarks, the leaders previewed some themes to expect at the assembly's big annual meeting,
which gets into full gear Tuesday.


Load-Date: September 23, 2024


  
