

                                                                                                        Page 1 of 3
                $15M FOR GAME THEORY WITH AI AGENTS, QUANTUM SEMICONDUCTORS FOR
                                MICROELECTRONICS AND PHOTONICS




            $15M FOR GAME THEORY WITH AI AGENTS, QUANTUM
         SEMICONDUCTORS FOR MICROELECTRONICS AND PHOTONICS
                                                States News Service
                                              October 7, 2024 Monday



Copyright 2024 States News Service

Length: 1260 words
Byline: States News Service
Dateline: ANN ARBOR, Mich.

Body


The following information was released by the University of Michigan - Ann Arbor:

The DoD funds efforts to incorporate AI agents into game theory and develop microelectronics that can withstand a
hot day on Venus or carry quantum information

Two Multidisciplinary University Research Initiatives have been awarded to the University of Michigan, which will
advance game theory and develop a promissing new material for use in microelectronics and quantum photonics.

Each grant represents a $7.5 million investment from the Department of Defense over five years. The game theory
project is funded by the Office of Naval Research and led by Vijay Subramanian, professor of electrical and
computer engineering. The quantum material-focused project is supported by the Army Research Office and
headed by Zetian Mi, professor of electrical and computer engineering.

Updating game theory for AI

Game theory tries to predict the outcomes of the interactions of various players, based on the objectives those
players are pursuing and taking into account limitations on each player's choices. It discovers likely outcomes that
arise when no player, known more formally as an agent, can make progress toward their goals through their own
actions.

Game theory has conventionally focused on intelligent agents that have similar decision-making capabilities, but AI
and robotic agents change the rules, with different limitations for sensing, processing information and taking action.
In some casesfor instance, processing large amounts of datathey may be more capable than human agents.

"A lot of these will rely on learning using the data that's collected, because these robots will have to sense their
environment, sense what the humans are doing, and so on, to react to what the humans are doing," Subramanian
said.

                                                                                                        Page 2 of 3
              $15M FOR GAME THEORY WITH AI AGENTS, QUANTUM SEMICONDUCTORS FOR
                              MICROELECTRONICS AND PHOTONICS

The new project aims to update game theory so that it can include less capable, sometimes robotic agents powered
by AI. They will explore multiple agents working as a teamfor example, to respond to a disasteras well as agents
working against one another. As a secondary aim, the team will explore effects related to information exchange
such as delays and partial awareness.

The agents will form internal models of themselves and other agents, sort of like conceptualizing themselves and
others, and they will also form models of their environments. These models will guide their decisions and actions. At
first, they will operate in environments that don't change, but as the project progresses, the team will make the
environments dynamic. For instance, in a disaster response scenario, agents may be initially limited to certain
locations by debris, but their mobility improves over time as areas are cleared. Alternatively, an area may become
cut off if a structure falls.

Collaborators will bring real-world data to the project. For instance, park rangers have set up cameras that can
monitor for poaching, but the poachers can learn to avoid those sites. In addition, the rangers collect information
about how the park changesthe movements of the animals, locations that become dangerous after rain, the times of
day when poachers are most active, and so on. In this way, they can produce dynamic maps that highlight areas
where poaching activity is most likely. Meanwhile, the poachers are playing a similar game, Subramanian
explainedidentifying places they can go safely, and the places and times rangers might try to intercept them.

Other interactions the team intends to model are between banks and regulators, and competing ride-sharing
services that may introduce fully autonomous vehicles. The team includes expertise in machine learning, control,
algorithms, economics and mathematics.

New kind of semiconductor for next-generation microelectronics and quantum signals

While old hard drives used to store information in slow-to-switch magnetic fields encoding 1s and 0s, and solid state
drives use equally slow electric-charge switches, another MURI project aims to use faster switchable electric fields
as part of an effort to develop a new class of ferroelectric devices. Switched with pulses of light, they could achieve
millionfold speed increases over other memories, enabling storage of both classical and quantum states.
Ferroelectric semiconductors maintain their electrical fields even when no power is applied, and those made with
nitrogen, rather than oxygen, have the potential to operate at up to 1000C, or 1832F.

This ability could enable more robust microelectronics for space missions nearer to the sun as well as in high
temperature environments on earthfor instance, close to combustion engines, inside advanced nuclear reactors or
deep in Earth's crust.

In addition, the same semiconductor can pick up single-photon signals and change them into different kinds of
photons, potentially linking quantum processors with conventional sensors and memories. Here, one key challenge
is converting the energy of a photon 10,000-fold, from the microwave range into the visible, enabling quantum
computing units to be connected through optical networks. The same quantum mechanisms can be optimized to
switch memories at the speed of a light oscillationroughly a quadrillionth of a second. This would enable lossless,
ultrafast transitions between electronic states, which is essential for next-generation AI and quantum applications.

These goals may be met with a single quantum material, made of gallium and nitrogen with various other elements
that fine tune its properties. The team aims to create more perfect crystals to reduce energy losses, enhance
material durability, maximize achievable energy shifts, lower the energy required for memory switching, and
increase conversion efficiency.

"There are tremendous opportunities with this new class of semiconductors," Mi said. "They can be seamlessly
integrated with today's mainstream gallium nitride and silicon platforms, driving innovations for next-generation
microelectronics and quantum photonics. What we explore in this MURI program is just a small glimpse of the
potential these remarkable quantum semiconductors hold."

                                                                                                     Page 3 of 3
             $15M FOR GAME THEORY WITH AI AGENTS, QUANTUM SEMICONDUCTORS FOR
                             MICROELECTRONICS AND PHOTONICS

The game theory project is called "New Game Theory for New Agents: Foundations and Learning Algorithms for
Decision-Making Mixed-Agents," and the team includes Dirk Bergemann, Yale University (economics); Avrim Blum,
Toyota Technological Institute Chicago (machine learning, computational learning theory); Rahul Jain, University of
Southern California (reinforcement learning, stochastic control); Elchanan Mossel, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology (mathematics, statistical inference); Milind Tambe, Harvard University (multi-agent systems, poaching
at national parks); Omer Tamuz, California Institute of Technology (economics, mathematics); and Eva Tardos,
Cornell University (algorithmic game theory, learning).

The ferroelectric material project is called "Nanoscale and Transduction"Optimized Pristine Ferroelectric Nitrides
(NanoTOP)," and the team includes Hongping Zhao, Ohio State (material synthesis); Alan Doolittle, Georgia Tech
(material synthesis, device construction); Susan Trolier-McKinstry, Penn State (material characterization and
devices); Hong Tang, Yale (signal conversion); Manos Kioupakis, U-M materials science and engineering (materials
theory); Mack Kira, U-M electrical and computer engineering (quantum theory and design); and Robert Hovden, U-
M materials science and engineering (material characterization).

The device was built in the Lurie Nanofabrication Facility and studied at the Michigan Center for Materials
Characterization.


Load-Date: October 8, 2024


  
